The City said the long-awaited CSIR study report was in response to concerns about the impact of raw sewage being pumped into the sea between Green Point, Sea Point and Hout Bay. It said it concluded that people could not get sick from the sewage. But this has been disputed and at least two people said the city misrepresented the information in the report. Professor Leslie Petrik, of the Environmental and Nano Science Research Group at UWC, said the report had a lot of gaps in it. “The microbiology, as far as I can ascertain, was not performed by CSIR but was from data given to them by the City.” Petrik said she was sure the samples that were taken were the “blue flag data”. “The point is: the samples are taken twice a month and a lot can happen in between that time. The samples get taken at fixed points and you know the ocean moves. If there is a plume of pollution, it moves up, down and sideways - a pollution plume doesn’t dissipate straight away; it has solids in it. And sewerage is discharged continuously. It is not a once-off event.” Petrik said that in the conclusion of the report it said it was probable humans could get sick from sewage pumped into the sea. “The City interpreted that it means you cannot get sick. That is not what the report is saying. One cannot turn scientific probabilities into certainties. The report does not go far enough because a lot of uncertainty exists. The City’s misinterpretation of the report is really scary, as they are misrepresenting the science. They apparently commissioned this report so they could justify the application to continue putting sewerage into the ocean. The City is taking it as justification to continue their practice.” Petrik said the City claiming that the report said sewage outfalls posed no significant health risks was an easy way out. “It is barbaric to be pumping raw sewage into the ocean when we know how to treat it. We all pay rates to have effluent treated but it is being pumped into ocean. It is an easy way out as it will cost them to build a plant.” In response to the disputes, mayco member for Informal Settlements, Water and Waste Services; and Energy, Xanthea Limberg said The City has not ever said, that disposing of wastewater through the three marine outfalls has zero impacts on the marine environment. “By disposing wastewater into any system we are adding pollutants to that system. This is an indisputable fact. However, marine outfalls are designed to dispose of wastewater in a manner that the receiving environment has the capacity to absorb that waste on our behalf, known as its ‘assimilative capacity’. "What the recent City-funded CSIR report found was that we have not yet outstripped the assimilative capacity of our marine environment, and as such we are not facing any immediate ecological crisis as a result of the three marine outfalls.” She added that discharge of wastewater effluent through marine outfalls is a globally accepted means of managing waste. A properly designed marine outfall provides an efficient mechanism for the disposal of wastewater with immediate dilution in the order of 100:1, rapidly reducing concentrations of constituents in the effluent.”  yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus