This proved to be true for Michelle Luscombe, from Claremont, who said she received a new lease of life after getting a heart transplant. On Wednesday the Organ Donor Foundation  raised awareness of the need for more donors. The briefing was held at the Christiaan Barnard Memorial Hospital, 50 years after Barnard performed the first heart transplant at Groote Schuur Hospital. The briefing was attended by organ recipients and those still on waiting lists. The organisation said 4000 people are waiting on organ transplants and 100 of those are in need of hearts. Founder and chief executive, Samantha Nicholls said they were now focusing on mass education drives to attract donors. “Due to the lack of donors, only a quarter of those on waiting lists will be able to have a transplant.” Luscombe was diagnosed with a heart condition at 12 and received one when she turned 22. “I tell people that I have been on the waiting list for 10 years because that is when I knew about it and I was only healthy enough for a transplant at 22.” Although it was traumatic, she always knew she would live. “I didn’t think death was on my cards at that young age. I didn’t know I would struggle for so long. It is like a new life. I go for regular check-ups, but otherwise I live a healthy lifestyle, I have to live a hygienic lifestyle.” To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Nine-year-old Jude van der Westhuizen is yet to receive a heart donation after being born prematurely at 6 months with an enlarged heart. Jude’s mother Alicia van der Westhuizen said it was not easy, but they were hopeful that their son would get a heart. “It was a really bad time for us as a family, but he has been doing well and he hasn’t been in hospital for a year now. He had been doing so well and he is going to school even though he can’t do things like other kids, like run around and play a lot, but he tries. Van der Westhuizen said her son was brave and mature about his condition. “To have someone lose somebody in order to give something to someone else is not easy. We know it’s not easy for a parent to lose their child in order for someone else to receive life, but it’s such a huge gift to give to another person."  yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus