Advocate Shawn Willemse was appointed by the provincial legislature last week following the resignation of Romeo Maasdorp in September. He said the most important issue would be to complete investigations. Asked if he was aware of the Madikizela investigation, he said: “I have never met the man, but I have heard of him. I have not followed the whole investigation against him. I will however be guided by the legal mandate I get and will of course act accordingly. I will work with what is in front of me. One prefers at times to do your own investigations, and it is always better to do it that way but what is important is that we conclude the investigation,” he said. ALSO READ: Madikizela's contractor buddy helped pay for birthday bash The chairperson of the legislature’s conduct committee, DA MPL Lennit Max, resigned suddenly in September. This followed the resignation of Maasdorp, whose job was advertised while he was still in the position. The committee has been charged with probing a lavish birthday party thrown for Human Settlements MEC and acting DA provincial leader Madikizela and whether his acceptance of a R3 000 birthday cake, which he failed to declare, breached ethical guidelines. Willemse said he had no political affiliations and would conduct his work without fear. “I don’t have any political affiliations, I will not allow anyone to influence me or the work I do. There will be no pre-judgments and we will work according to the prescribed law.” Willemse started his career as an enforcement investigator at the South African Revenue Service. He was also a senior investigator at the public protector, then he moved to the Western Cape Liquor Authority where he was appointed deputy director for compliance and enforcement. He then went back to the public protector where he was appointed as senior investigator and headed the justice and service delivery unit. Willemse  currently owns a legal consultancy firm. RELATED:Western Cape DA leadership candidates in spat ACDP MPL Ferlon Christians said the ANC excluded themselves. “We were all part of the process. Even the EFF agreed with the candidate. They were there, all of us were there. We partcipated  in the process and we agreed with the appointment. We fully support the new registrar,” he said. Mark Wiley, DA chief whip, said the key performance indicators (KPIs) of the vacancy were not negotiable, and were taken directly from the legislature ethics code. “There is no need to consult with any political party before advertising the position. We now have an outstanding candidate in advocate Shawn Willemse, and we wish him all the best in his endeavours to maintain the legal order and decorum of our legislature. He has our full support to conduct his work without fear or favour.”  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus