Cape Town - Nqabisa Mkatali, the partner of slain Noluvo Swelindawo, broke down in the Western Cape High Court as she detailed events leading up to her partner's death. Swelindawo was abducted from her home in Driftsands and was later found dead near a footbridge to Khayelitsha at the side of the N2 highway on December 4, 2016. The man accused of her murder, Sigcine Mdani, is facing charges of assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm, housebreaking with intent to kidnap, kidnapping and murder. On Tuesday, Mkatali testified that the accused was among the group of men who had kidnapped Swelindawo on the evening prior to her death. Mdani and Swelindawo got into an altercation at a friend's party in Driftsands two days before the murder, the court heard. Mkatali said she heard screams. "When I got outside I found Vovo (referring to Swelindawo) on the floor. Ma-Seven (the accused) was standing not far from her. She was bleeding. “I asked her what happened and she said Ma-Seven assaulted her. I asked him why did he do that and he said she was getting too familiar with him,” she said. Swelindawo sustained a cut to the chin and her left eye was red and swollen. After the party the couple had another encounter with the accused. Mkatali had begged for forgiveness on behalf of her partner as Mdani had begun to appraoch her again in a fit of rage. Defence advocate Sheriff Mohammed said in the accused's version of events, Swelindawo first smacked him twice in the face, leading him to drop the beer he had been drinking. “He said he punched her twice in the face and said she was bleeding but he did not see any swelling,” said Mohammed. On the morning of December 3, Swelindawo informed her brother that she had been assaulted by Mdani. Her brother then went to the accused’s home and assaulted his parents. The rest of the family retaliated. That same evening Mkatali recalled the accused forcefully removing Swelindawo from their home. “I followed behind them, but it was too dark and there were no street lights. I went to the neighbours and called for help. One of the neighbours called the police. We continued with the search for her, as police were taking long to respond,” she said. She was offered a place to sleep at a neighbour’s home as she feared the accused might come back for her. “We heard a scream in the early hours of the morning. I thought it was her, but it wasn’t. “It was then that someone told me that her body had been found,” she sobbed. Mkatali became too emotional to continue her testimony. The trial resumes on Wednesday. zodidi.dano@inl.co.za Cape Argus