The trial of the 23 year old stood down two weeks ago when the court heard that Van Breda had a seizure on November 8. He spent the weekend in hospital where he underwent a series of tests and was diagnosed with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy. Dr James Butler told the court that given the media attention in this case, he had instinctively considered malingering, a feigning of illness for secondary gain. But, after admitting Van Breda to hospital for the weekend, he had no doubt about his diagnosis: “Turns out he had three major seizures. Nothing in life is certain, but it is highly likely he has juvenile myoclonic epilepsy”. Electrodes recording the brain’s electrical activity for 24 hours and heart monitors were attached to Van Breda. Spikes appearing on the EEG (electroencephalogram) were strongly predictive of epilepsy, Butler told the court. Butler believes Van Breda has had epilepsy for several years, and when questioned about the severity of the seizures by Judge Siraj Desai, conceded that it doesn’t impair one’s daily functioning. Van Breda is nearing the end of his mammoth trial for allegedly killing his mother, father and brother and severely injuring his sister in an axe attack at their family home in Stellenbosch in January 2015. He claims an intruder, armed with an axe and a knife, and wearing dark clothing, a balaclava, and gloves, was responsible for the attacks. He said, in his plea, that during the pursuit of the attacker he lost his footing and fell down the stairs. After the attacker fled, and trying to phone his girlfriend without success, the accused said he went up the stairs, where he could hear his brother Rudi in the bedroom. On the middle landing towards the top, he saw his sister Marli moving. “I then lost consciousness. I am unsure whether this was due to shock or to the injuries that I sustained when I fell down the stairs, or a combination of both”. Dr Butler’s testimony could account for Van Breda’s memory loss during the two-hour 40 minute time lapse. Butler said Van Breda’s girlfriend had reported “several episodes of memory loss” but put it down to drinking too much alcohol. She told Butler that on November 8 Van Breda had “abruptly lost his memory”. “She said his breathing was very noisy. When he regained memory, he was light headed and very tired. When the seizure is over the dysfunction in the brain doesn’t stop. The brain typically takes several hours, sometimes days, to recover”. Butler said he questioned Van Breda about his memory loss on the night of the murders and said he recalled seeing his sister moving at the top of the stairs. “He then abruptly lost his memory. Furthermore he said it was dark outside before he lost his memory.” Van Breda noticed it was light outside when he woke up and was disorientated, Butler said. Butler also commented on a photograph of Van Breda taken in the ambulance. “He looked considerably dulled to me. It is certainly strongly consistent with the appearance of someone recovering from a seizure.” ANA