I spotted a dad and his daughter as they rode on the Stellenbosch Arterial near Delft. What struck me about them was how protective the father was over his young daughter on his back. I stopped them and asked if I could do an interview. The dad first responded: “Why?” I explained the Cape Argus is doing an awareness campaign about the violence against women and children. David Langeveldt, 45, from Delft said: “You see today you have to be over protective of your children, especially if they are girls. With all the things happening you cannot be too safe. “That is also why her name is Hope, because I want a better future for her. There are a lot of dangers out here and children don’t know this. This is why we are their fathers and parents. “We as fathers and men need to protect our children and women. Every day I speak to other men and tell them that it is important that we look after them. You see the seat that she is sitting in on my back, was an old bag, but I turned it into a seat. So every time I leave the house, I take her with me,” he said. Patric Solomons, Mongo Songololo’s director, said dads play an important role. “Fathers do make a difference. Fathers and mothers must work together and take equal responsibility of parenting their children. Attachment to fathers are different for children than attachment to mothers. “Fathers who communicate and have trusting relationships  with their children are more likely to empower their children with life-skills that can help to protect themselves from abuse. “Report inappropriate behaviour and approaches. Boys will respect girls and women and girls will be assertive to express their views and opinions more freely when challenged. “The parent-child relationship and values projected by fathers and mothers are important to strengthen interpersonal relations within the family. “Fathers who understand their role and function in the family as supportive, nurturing and protector of rights are better able to guide their children. “Children need a strong role model and fathers sometimes provide this,” he 
said. He said families and society need to hold men who abdicate their parental responsibilities to account. “They must support their children financially and through active parenting and involvement in the child’s life. Abandoning a child must be seen as a child rights violation to a family. Fathers who do so must be viewed as child rights violators,” Solomons said. For 16 Days of Activism to end violence against women and children, Independent Media will bring you stories behind the statistics. Please DONT LOOK AWAY. We can all make a difference by supporting victims and organisations working to build a future without violence. Cape Argus