Cape Town - Susan Rohde’s psychological state remained under scrutiny in the Western Cape High Court on Wednesday. Defence prosecutor Pete Mihalik continued to cross-examine Susan's psychologist Jane Newcombe, asking whether or not Susan exhibited suicidal thoughts, and her mental state regarding the discovery of her husband, Jason’s infidelity. Jason Rohde has been charged with Susan's murder. Newcombe revealed that it was rational for Susan to want to keep the information about Jason’s affair to herself, saying some people don’t necessarily want to divulge the fact that their spouse is cheating on them. “I used to rely on my husband, but now I can’t,” Newcombe read from her notes in court. Susan had told Newcombe she would prefer to keep his affair a private matter. Newcombe also said while Susan was angry at her husband's mistress, she did not hold her responsible. Mihalik then took the court through some of Susan's WhatsApp messages to her husband and questioned her mental state at the time she sent them. Mihalik argued that Susan followed Jason’s every move and that she had verbalised her desire to die. On March 1, 2016 at 7.12pm, Susan sent a message to Jason saying: “Do you have any idea of how insecure you made me feel all this time.” On May 9, 2016 at 1.28pm, Susan sent a message to Jason: “I don’t really care anyways because I know for the whole 302 days you were with her you wanted to leave me and you hated me. I could feel it and that’s why I was always so sad. 302 days I was sad.” A minute later: “Now for 72 days I’ve felt like dying.” On May 17, 2016 at 6.45pm, she wrote: “I honestly hate complaining all the time but you know how insecure I am at the moment and then you go on whats app [sic] earlier and say nothing to me.” The next day, at 3.43pm, Susan sent Jason a message saying: "You try and block me." At 3.44pm: "I will personally murder her then. "I don't care anymore. You want me to go crazy and that's what you've got." Newcombe raised concerns about taking the messages out of context had as she had not seen them before, but said the messages appeared to be written as an attempt to make Jason feel bad using exaggerated speech. “She was not reporting any of this to me in therapy,” Newcombe said. “It would raise grave concerns if she was saying it to me.” Newcombe said there was a difference between Susan expressing these sentiments during therapy and during a fight. Mihalik pushed Newcombe, suggesting that the possibility of suicide existed in light of the messages, but while Newcombe acknowledged the possibility, she said she knew Susan had short-, medium-, and long-term goals. “I had the no reason to anticipate that the weekend would end in the way it did,” Newcombe said. Court was adjourned to allow Newcombe to further examine the Whatsapp conversations and their context before cross-examination could continue. The matter resumes on Thursday.  theolin.tembo@inl.co.za  Cape Argus