Now in its third year, the Citizens’ Bribery Survey is conducted annually by The Ethics Institute with the aim of understanding how ordinary South Africans perceive and experience bribery in their daily lives, and the socio-economic factors that influence bribery. The institute surveyed nearly 5000 respondents across the country and according to the survey, respondents perceived the DA at 45% as the party that is the most committed to combating corruption, followed by the EFF at 28% and the ANC got 19%. The institute’s chief executive, Professor Deon Rossouw, said they have noticed an increasingly prominent narrative about the impact of leaders on the ethical environment.  “People look to leaders to role model desirable behaviour. By including a section on leadership we were able to get a clearer understanding of citizens’ actual views on this important subject.” Rossouw said the poor are the most affected by bribery, when compared to the rich and the middle class.  “This is consistent with previous years’ findings. It seems that the dividing line is at a household income of R400000 per year.  "Those below that line find it significantly more difficult to avoid paying bribes. Bribes for jobs, social grants and basic services are likely to affect this segment more.” According to the survey the top five most common bribes were to avoid traffic offences; to obtain a driver’s license; to secure a job; to receive a public service; and to avoid criminal charges.  “This is the first time that bribes for police matters and criminal charges are in the top five. Avoiding traffic offences has been the most common type of bribe for three years in a row. "This form of corruption is said to be trivial corruption, but it’s not as it has a massive significance involving millions of rand.” He said although bribery was widespread it was not seen as okay by many. “We distinguished from places like India and Russia where it is okay.  "I don’t think we are there yet."     yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus