Aiming for the Games in Tokyo in 2020 would be pushing it, but August said he was working on competing at the Games in the near future. “It’s not a small feat to be part of the team. It is a long-term goal of mine to try to represent South Africa in some disciplines,” he said. Last year August fractured his spine in two places when he was tossed from a train and hit a tree while trying to protect female passengers. August said he used himself as a decoy when a group of between five and eight men started robbing people. He is now partially wheelchair bound but said he would not be deterred by that. “My training really has to be on par with everything else, and I want to join a club. It’s quite a strenuous process.” August said he was considering cycling or water events like rowing. “There are awesome people I have looked at in the past like Ernst van Dyk, and they have awesome coaches. If I can get a really good team who know what they are doing that would be quite awesome,” he said. He added that before he was injured he spent a lot of time near the sea and was also a soccer coach. August’s friend Graeme Kuys has started a crowdfunding campaign for medical fees. “I’m not a religious man but I am a man of faith, and when God prompts you to do something, you do it. The Darryn I knew was so full of life and energy, you could barely restrain him in a chair for 10 minutes. He had given so much to others through educational programmes and coaching, and it was hard to think of him in a hospital bed struggling to come to terms with his injuries,” Kuys said He pledged to cycle laps of the Steenbras viewpoint. In a few days the initial R50000 fundraising target was shattered, generating more than R500000 for the local hero. “I first attempted the Steenbras climb in 2015 and failed, so I had unfinished business with that mountain. I knew it was going to be brutally hard but I thought it would give people a great incentive to support Darryn,” Kuys said. He was joined by Wimpie van der Merwe and Daryn Goldsbrough in completing 
the attempt.  yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus