The gathering will be held next month and coincide with the Volvo Ocean Race returning to Cape Town. Sustainability programme leader from Volvo Ocean Race Anne-Cécile Turner said it was important that the leading sports event in the world inspires best practice for all events around the world with the environment and local communities in mind. “The Volvo Ocean Race represents a unique platform to gather global key stakeholders and local influencers. This allows us to not only raise awareness about the crucial issue of plastic pollution, but also to empower them in positive action. We want to illustrate and promote best practice all over the world, from small-scale entrepreneurs to global corporations, to create measurable positive change in a continuous movement.” Echoing a similar commitment to the ocean, the V&A Waterfront, host for the stopover, is also at the forefront of the ocean economy and the positive impact it can play in making these opportunities available to all. Waterfront chief executive David Green said V&A is proud to once again host the race. “Ocean racing, and a global race of this magnitude, enables broad socio-economic opportunities locally while unlocking trade and industry opportunities through global host city partnerships. "The race has been a catalyst for the evolution of thinking around the potential of what the oceans economy can look like for the Western Cape, and South Africa. The focus on the sustainability of our oceans is highly relevant and consistent with our sustainability practices." According to the Afri Oceans Conservation Alliance, surveys of 50 South African beaches from the Eastern Cape to Cape Town showed that over a five-year period plastic pollution had increased by 190%, and that more than 90% of the articles found on these beaches contained plastic. “Plastic is now found on virtually all South African beaches, even the most remote. The shores and oceans of the rest of the world are equally littered with plastic pollution, a deadly killer of millions of marine animals every year.” Cape Town Stopover Delivery Agency, WorldSport chief executive Bruce Parker-Forsyth sees the event as another example of Cape Town’s ability to host global events of stature and relevance. “The joint venture between ourselves and the V&A Waterfront, as well as the immense support from the City of Cape Town, offers us the ideal set of circumstances to share the message of the UN Clean Seas campaign and Ocean Sustainability with local and international visitors in the Volvo Ocean Race Village hosted at the V&A Waterfront.”  yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus