District Six stakeholders are a diverse group of individuals, and for a number of years our staff have been carefully navigating a complex relationship with the various community groupings in an effort to build a sincere relationship for all parties. This has been a difficult process, but thanks to the constant engagement with these community groups, the institution has re-evaluated its position and considered what we could and should be doing better. The page-one Cape Argus article on Tuesday, “District Six land claimants demand restitution from CPUT”, contains the voice of a lone community group, the District 6 Working Group, which refuses to engage with CPUT and states as fact a number of bizarre accusations that are untrue. Let us be clear - CPUT has been willing to engage with all D6 stakeholders, and over time we have developed cordial relations with the D6 Community Forum, the D6 Reference Group, and we have been co-operating with the D6 Museum. The only outlier in this is Mr Shahied Ajam’s District 6 Working Group, and we are uncertain of exactly who he represents. His lack of engagement with the institution is clear in his bizarre and unsubstantiated claim that 90% of CPUT students are not South African.. Rather than find more issues with his similar statements, we believe it would be more valuable for the community to know some of the tangible benefits to the integration efforts of CPUT. All vacant land on the east side of the campus was handed back to the community in May 2015 and housing is currently being developed on this land for land claimants. We have made 10 bursaries available to three neighbourhood high schools and one to the Community Forum. D6 Digital storytelling, video screenings and photography projects have seen students working with members of the D6 community. CPUT students have joined the Community Watch in an effort to safeguard the area. A community urban garden and recreational space is being developed by our horticultural, engineering and design students in collaboration with the D6 residents Sensitising Cape Town students to the history of the space they occupy takes place  during orientation. Following the St Mark’s Anglican Church arson attack during the recent crisis, this will now include input from nearby churches and mosques. Joint workshops with students and staff. At the request of the community, we have conducted a Recognition of Prior Learning Workshop information session Most recently, 30 members of the D6 community attended a training workshop on food health and safety at the Cape Town Hotel School as part of a Hospitality Management project. Our Civil Engineering Department is working together with the St Mark’s Anglican Church on a baptismal mapping project and also with the D6 Museum on site markings and signage of original locations in the area. In conclusion, we would like to welcome Mr Ajam and his organisation to join any of the above-mentioned projects. All of the above has been possible because similar community organisations were willing to engage and work with CPUT towards a beneficial and positive solution for all. * Lauren Kansley is the spokesperson for the Cape Peninsula University of Technology. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus