The South African Maritime Safety Authority (Samsa) has concluded its investigation into what caused the vessel to almost sink in September. “The report has helped us evaluate our current safety procedures and to provide an even better and safer experience for all the visitors to the Island,” chief executive officer of Robben Island Museum Mava Dada said. Dada added that safety had always been their priority and, based on the report,  they would be implementing a number of safety measures to improve safety protocols. Samsa conducted the investigation and found one of the key elements that led to the incident was the weather conditions. The Museum will be taking further precautions and will be installing additional wind-monitoring equipment on the Island so that wind conditions can be monitored in Cape Town and at Robben Island. Samsa initially did not want to release its findings to the public.  The ferry began taking on  water in rough seas en route to Robben Island on September 15. Its 64 passengers and four crew had to be rescued before the ferry was salvaged. “We assure visitors to Robben Island that the measures already in place, and the updated safety measures now being implemented, are such that visitors are assured of the best possible safety standards on all our vessels,” Dada said. Dada also commended Samsa for its detailed and swift investigation. “We recognise and commend the recommendations made by Samsa with regards to the possible changes to the regulations and legislation relating to passenger ferry operations, which will play a significant role in ensuring both higher quality vessels, as well as improved quality of operations,” he said. The chairperson of the standing committee for economic opportunities, tourism and agriculture, Beverley Schäfer, said she will be tabling the report this week. “I will be tabling the report to the committee electronically and then we will revert back to the public because the public has the right to know,” Schäfer said. She said the Robben Island Museum should relook at its regulations. “They have to ensure they provide a reliable service and ensure that tourists get world-class service.”  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus