As 16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence campaign continues, the family of Unathi Sabsana, 27, is in mourning. Sabsana, who was a well known entrepreneur, was shot at her parents home in NY 74. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana, said: “According to reports police attended to the complaint of murder. Upon their arrival at a hospital they found a body of a 27-year-old woman with gunshot wounds to the head and upper body. No one has been arrested at this stage.” The family believed her ex-boyfriend might have been stalking her as she had a protection order against him. “Unathi was parking her car outside as we came back from church. She saw her ex-boyfriend and while she was running he shot her in the back and fell at the kitchen door. I was in the kitchen still shocked and confused on what was happening, when he came in and shot her at close range while she was still down. He didn’t even run he just walked out,” Unathi’s father Dumalisile Sabsana said. The young mother of a 10-year-old boy died at the KTC Day Hospital. She owned Unathi’s Take Aways.   Dumalisile Sabsana said what broke his heart and angered him most was seeing his grandchildren, children and wife traumatised. “It was chaotic in the house everyone ran for cover as they heard the last gunshot.Today (Wednesday) we all received counselling, we gave the police everything and by now we thought we were going to be told about his arrest.  “The family will never be at peace as he is a threat to our family and other families. He must be arrested and bail must be denied,” he said. Advocacy group Ilitha Labantu expressed outrage. Spokesperson Siyabulela Monakali said: “This senseless killing is shocking, regardless of the 16 Days of Activism campaign. “It’s always by someone the family knows. Our laws must be tightened, to what degree do protection orders really protect women. Society has become desensitised to issues surrounding violence on women and children. We have cosmetically came up with ways of addressing issues of domestic violence on women and children.”   okuhle.hlati@inl.co.za  For 16 Days of Activism to end violence against women and children, Independent Media will bring you stories behind the statistics. Please DONT LOOK AWAY. We can all make a difference by supporting victims and organisations working to build a future without violence. Cape Argus