We are sprouting papers that explore the detritus of the human condition in the pursuit of academic recognition. Child abuse, gangsterism, substance misuse, teenage amorality, family violence (all can be preceded by the tentative “perceived”) and such achingly sensitive areas are the stomping grounds of academics for whom there appears to be no rules. This in itself is not as disturbing as the evidence that research as a concept has been diluted to the “ questionnaire”  technique. Delving into a subject is often reduced to well-eared standard interrogations done under almost mechanical bureaucratic sanctions in near-clinically “safe” areas. This could achieve spurious conclusions that somehow lack the smack of muscular authenticity. The age of electronic information-sharing is adding the dubious "add-water-and-stir" feel that I get from the texts I have perused. I am of the old school that misses the slow paging and poring through hoary tomes to chase down sources that provided the grist to our academic mills. The hurt of the violence is too close, as are the injury of rationalisation in education and business, and the concomitant loss of talent and expertise. The fractured lives that had to serve as fuel on the sacrificial fire of change 
are still too close in a historical sense. We need some temporal and spatial distance in order to avoid being seen as insensitive to the lacerating demands of the new-born suckling baby called a democratic South Africa. We need to remember that the closing-down, or relocation, or rationalising of teacher-training still has a lot of people haemorrhaging over the rapidity and inexorable insistence of what mostly amounted to annihilation or obliteration. Indeed, these are terms that are flouted as relevant discursive vocabulary. This raises the other hairball: a vocabulary that leaves traditional linguists pale with shock is pushing aside the measured resonances of the academic language we used to speak. Now we are using terms that are neologisms by nature. Compound-nouns abound alongside verbs that suddenly grow muscles as gerunds in the new order. So we no longer examine the effect of things, but the impact; we speak of role-players, and we roll out things. We test sustainability and speak about building capacity. There is some concern that the verbiage is so rampant and dominant and steeped in political agenda. There are few signs that the actions will follow, and we will suffer the ignominy of under-utilised funds mouldering in the minds of some directionless directors. We hope there will be actual rolling in the roll-outs, and actual building in the quest to achieve capacity (whatever that may mean). Roll on. actabisher@gmail.com * Literally Yours is a weekly column from Cape Argus reader Alex Tabisher. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus