Unfortunately, our society still suffers from a history of exploitation of women and there are daily instances of them being sexually harassed and exploited in the workplace. I regularly interview and represent women who have had unwelcome advances, negative comments, even sexual assault perpetrated by colleagues. Many women, desperate to keep their jobs, keep quiet or even succumb to the ongoing sexual harassment from their managers, employers and directors. I believe that this type of untoward and grossly invasive behaviour is endemic in many industries. Young women are often unaware of their rights and are most likely too scared to say anything. If it is happening to one women then this is probably happening to many in that same workplace. I am urging women to come forward and to speak to their trade union official or inspectors from the Department of Labour as soon as this occurs. Obviously, in larger businesses women can raise grievances through the formal procedures and can even go to bargaining councils or the Commission for Conciliation Mediation and Arbitration. Our forward-thinking Labour Relations Act has a code of good practice on the handling of sexual harassment cases at the workplace. This code was published as far back as 1998 and is still relevant. The code is a very clear and concise guideline on its application and the definition of sexual harassment. It is recommended that it be accessed through the department and be studied by employers and trade unions.  The idea behind the code was to eliminate sexual harassment in the workplace. The procedures outlined in the codet are straight forward and enable employers to take immediate action to put a stop to such acts and to allow the employer to dismiss the perpetrators if found culpable at disciplinary enquires. It must be noted that employers can be blamed for the consequences of sexual harassment if they don’t take action immediately against the perpetrator. There have been many cases where the employer has had to pay large sums of money to people who have been harassed. In each case the employee had made a complaint and the employer had either done nothing or had not taken the complaint as seriously as it should have. All employers are encouraged to develop their own internal codes and practices of how to handle sexual harassment of any nature. It must be remembered that sexual harassment includes unwelcome physical, verbal or non-verbal conduct. Even the sending of a suggestive WhatsApp or email to a co-employee could be deemed to be unwarranted and harassment. It should also be noted that even one instance of an unwelcome gesture of a sexual nature could be deemed to be sexual harassment. There have been cases including unwelcome innuendos and suggestions which have been deemed to be sexual harassment. Sex-related jokes or insults or even graphic 
comments about a person’s body would lead to 
complaints of an assault and findings of wrong doing. The code explains it that even unwelcome whistling at a person or a group of persons is not acceptable.   There have been unfortunate situations where offers of employment or even promotion have been made in exchange for sexual favours. This is sexual harassment and actionable. Sexual favouritism does exist. It is up to employers to action this wrongdoing to ensure it is immediately stopped. Grievances must not be ignored. Obviously, the investigation should be kept confidential in case the complaint is bogus. Even if there is a suspicion, the employer has a duty to investigate and follow up. * Michael Bagraim is a labour lawyer. This column is kindly sponsored by O’Brien Recruitment. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media Cape Argus