Jakobsz conspired with junior merchant Jeronimus Cornelisz (a failed Haarlem apothecary) to drift away from the rest of the fleet, seize and kill Pelsaert and anyone else who opposed them, and roam the seas as pirates, using the company’s bullion to finance their activities. Preparations for the mutiny were well advanced when the Batavia grounded on a shoal near the coast of Western Australia before dawn on June 4, having maintained a westerly course for too long. Chaos reigned during the next few days and at least 40 people drowned when the wreck took a pounding in a winter storm. During the crisis many survivors swam or were ferried to two or three neighbouring islets - barren specks of land in the Wallabi group of the Abrolhos Islands. The castaways managed to salvage two seaworthy boats, some food and a little water but they were in deep trouble. In those days, the continent of Australia was a mystery to European travellers, having been sighted by a Dutch navigator for the first time a mere 23 years earlier. He made landfall at Cape York on the northern coast, thousands of kilometres away. The former enemies Pelsaert and Jakobsz set aside their quarrel and hatched a covert plan to search for water on the mainland. When this proved unsuccessful, they sailed to Java with their small longboat loaded to capacity. All 48 occupants survived the taxing 33-day passage and reached Batavia in mid-July. Pelsaert led the rescue mission aboard the yacht Saardam, which reached the islands after a seven-week voyage. He was pleased to see smoke and 
signs of life as he dropped anchor, but 
he was unprepared for what he was about to hear. Having been abandoned by their leaders and officers, the miserable and thirsty castaways were left to the mercy of the traitorous VOC under-merchant Jeronimus Cornelisz, who drifted ashore after remaining on the wreck for nine days. He confiscated all the weapons, took charge of the remaining water, rationed the food and administered strict discipline. Anticipating trouble from a group of Company soldiers led by a common soldier named Wiebbe Hayes, he ferried them to other islands to search for water and marooned them there, hoping that they would die of privation. He then instituted a regime of terror aimed at buying the loyalty of a few henchmen and eliminating all those he perceived as enemies or useless drones who consumed scarce resources. What followed was a nightmare of epic proportions. More next week. * Jackie Loos's "The Way We Were" column is published in the Cape Argus every week. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media Cape Argus