Cape Town - This grand old lady celebrated her 105th birthday this week - and she says it’s because she’s a teetotaler who doesn’t smoke either. On Tuesday, auntie Sophie Blignaut had a wonderful party, organised by her family and Belhar ward councillor Delmaine Cottee. For the past five years, the Blignaut family have come together to celebrate their matriarch. They say auntie Sophie was excited when she heard about her bash. The centenarian has twelve children, of which eight are still alive, 45 grandchildren, 34 great-grandchildren and 16 great-great-grandchildren. Aunty Sophie says she survives because she has a reason to live. “My children are the reason I am alive. All 95 of them are my responsibility,” auntie Sophie tells Daily Voice. “I have to be around to take care of them and be here for them. I must pray for them. I also do not smoke cigarettes or drink wine. That is the stuff that makes you old,” she adds. Aunty Sophie is not burdened by any of the illnesses that come with getting on in the years. She is as healthy as a horse and still very witty. She just cannot stand or walk for too long as she gets tired. Councillor Cottee says he assists the family with the party every year and regularly visits Aunty Sophie to check up on his ward’s oldest resident. “I am just doing it because I know the family for years now. I know her children and grandchildren as well. It is part of my community service to bring this family together every year to celebrate the pride of our community,” says Cottee. Meanwhile, auntie Sophie says she is looking forward to next year’s bash. “They think I don’t know them making plans to surprise me, but I overhear them and I am very happy that they choose to be with me on this day. I live for my family and look forward to this again next year,” she says. The family is in the process of writing a book about Aunty Sophie to inspire others to also live better and healthier.  saafia.february@inl.co.za   Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 