The reserve said it was the second calf to have been born there in the space of two years. “Sadly, as the global rhino poaching crisis continues to rampage, coupled with the mere fact that rhino are notoriously slow breeders, every rhino life is important to the survival of the species,” says Aquila's owner Searl Derman. The good news of the birth comes at a time when the Convention on the International Trade in Endangered Species (Cites) is meeting in Switzerland to discuss the continued fight to stop the illegal trade in elephant and rhino products. Several matters relating to elephants are on the  agenda, including a  proposal submitted by Burkina Faso, Congo, Kenya, and Niger on behalf of the African Elephant Coalition. The coalition has called on countries to act urgently on their commitment to close their domestic ivory markets. This is the first meeting of the standing committee since the 17th Conference of the Parties (CoP) to Cites last year, where parties agreed on a ground-breaking recommendation that all domestic ivory markets that are “contributing to poaching or illegal trade” should be closed “as a matter of urgency”. “Members of the African Elephant Coalition today clearly delivered the message that there is no time for complacency and that parties should close domestic ivory markets as a matter of urgency,” said Daniela Freyer of Pro Wildlife. “It is welcome that the EU, which is currently consulting on further steps on its own ivory trade, has joined calls for a progress report following-up on this Cites recommendation." A proposal submitted by Burkina Faso, Congo, Kenya, and Niger on behalf of the African Elephant Coalition calls for further action to develop practical guidance for the management of ivory stockpiles, including their disposal. “The clear and swift decision by the standing committee for the secretariat to prepare comprehensive guidance on ivory stockpiles is very welcome. “It should help those parties that want to follow the example set by more than 20 countries that have destroyed their ivory stockpiles as a signal against poaching and smuggling. “Equally, it will also help those countries that prefer to store their ivory by giving them more tools to do so safely and effectively,” said Fryer. Cape Argus