This is just one of the issues that came out of the fourth Commercial, Stevedoring, Agricultural and Allied Workers Union (CSAAWU) congress. Danielle de Witt stays on a wine farm and said some farmworkers were too scared to complain about their water issues as they feared losing their jobs. “On our farm the farmer did install boreholes, but he said it is only for the toilets. We have a big hunger for water; sometimes we have to steal the water from the boreholes." She said she was more concerned for her children and their health and safety, as they had little access to safe drinking water. “If people complain about the water, the farmer threatens to fire them, or his wife just tells them to boil it. "We are 14 workers and eight children, and we are using two toilets. He has two or three toilets in his house. We are fed up.” De Witt said farmworkers needed to come together because complaining individually made little difference. “If we fight alone nothing will happen, but if we stand together we can make a bigger change.” The general secretary of the South African Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu), Zwelinzima Vavi, said the plight of farmworkers was close to his heart as he was born to farmworker parents and grew up on a farm. “I witnessed the abuse of farmworkers, including my parents, so you can imagine how I feel to address a congress of mainly farmworkers.” Vavi said Saftu had now decided to make CSAAWU its number one priority. “These vulnerable workers need trade unions more than any workers. You do not need me to tell you about appalling conditions where farmworkers are abused, yet workers are defenceless against ruthless bosses. "Farms are a part of South Africa where nothing has changed since 1994. Many of your employers still dream
of the days of apartheid and even colonialism, where they can enforce racist laws.” CSAAWU general secretary Trevor Christians said the union needed to change and become about more than worker issues, and be more of a social movement. “Unions cannot stand on the outside and need to go into the communities and help workers, because we are the soldiers of the people.” Christians added that less than 4% of workers were members of unions. He said farmworkers were facing issues of housing, wages, transportation and education, but the issue of land needed to be addressed first.  yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus