This is according to the South African Child Gauge that was released on Tuesday. The study, published by the Children’s Institute (CI) and UCT in partnership with Unicef South Africa, explores what the country’s children need to both survive and thrive. The chief executive of the DG Murray Trust, David Harrison, said children’s ability to thrive is rooted in their ability to learn. He said the presence of nurturing and responsive caregivers could make an enormous difference to enable children to reach their full potential. “It can help break the cycle of violence and protect them from the adverse effects of poverty. Nurturing young children’s capabilities can increase employment, promote economic growth and create a safer, happier society. “If we nurture children’s normal growth and development - from conception to adulthood - we will unlock that human potential, disrupt intergenerational cycles of poverty and drive down inequality.” Harrison added that frequent or continuing harmful experiences of poverty could fundamentally change early brain development and lead to negative outcomes such as aggressive and antisocial behaviour throughout life. CI senior researcher and lead editor of the study, Lucy Jamieson, said sustainable development goals (SDGs) constituted a global agenda. “While the SDGs are a global agenda, their vision of intersectoral collaboration and inclusive development can help take South Africa forward - provided we start by investing in children.” Jamieson said the South African Child Gauge 2017 asserted that the necessary action was not just up to government. All sectors of society - health professionals, educators, social workers, business, civil society, communities, parents and children themselves - had a shared responsibility to ensure that no one was left behind in the drive to realise the SDGs and build an equitable and thriving South Africa. “We need to radically transform how services are delivered. This calls for a multi-sectoral plan of action to address the many forms of deprivation and exclusion that children experience.” Jamieson’s co-editor and CI senior researcher, Lizette Berry, emphasised the importance of relationships in helping children to thrive. Professor and director of the DST-NRF Centre of Excellence in Human Development at the University of the Witwatersrand, Linda Richter, said all children need nurturing care. “This includes responsive caregiving; good nutrition; protection from disease, violence and stress; and opportunities to learn. These elements are interdependent and mutually reinforcing, and are essential to prepare them for adulthood,” Richter said.  yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  For 16 Days of Activism to end violence against women and children, Independent Media will bring you stories behind the statistics. Please DONT LOOK AWAY. We can all make a difference by supporting victims and organisations working to build a future without violence. Cape Argus