Rabiah Davids of Portland, Mitchells Plain, has now been selected to compete at the US Open International Sport Karate and Kickboxing Association (ISKA) World Championships in July 2018. This Saturday she will also compete in the Western Province Karate Tournament held at Portland High School in Mitchells Plain. This will be the fifth tournament the Grade 1 pupil at Liesbeeck Primary School in Mitchells Plain will be competing in. Active In just 10 months of doing doing karate, she already has an orange belt. Her mom says as a toddler, Rabiah was “hyper” and very active. It was for this reason that Fatima Davids, 35, decided to enrol her daughter at Shukokai Karate Club in Mitchells Plain. At her first tournament in April in Parow, Rabiah walked away with gold. She is the eldest of three children, her siblings are aged nine months and three years old. The feisty little fighter practises three days a week, while her mom coaches her mentally. “She was very hyper since she was small and I decided she can focus that energy somewhere. She has made us so proud because she is so focused and disciplined,” explains Fatima. “I have told her always that your opponent will also be better than you and that she must prepare herself for being hit during a fight. “There are times when she cries and I tell her, ‘this is part of the sport, my baby’. I am so proud of her, you must see the posture. You could call her the local Karate Kid.” At a tournament held in Paarl, Rabiah won three gold medals, and she also got five silver medals. “She practises very hard, three days a week for a total of six hours,” says Fatima. “She was graded for orange belt last week and now she will be moving towards her green belt.” Her father, Faiz, adds: “We are really proud of her and we know she can go far because she is dedicated to her sport and we will always support and motivate her.” But they say Rabiah may not be able to attend the competition in the USA next year as it will cost R43 000. They are already working to raise funds for the big event. “Children who do these types of sports do not get the funding,” adds Fatima. Daily Voice