Cape Town - "Meat is meat and a man must eat", the saying goes, but have you ever wondered why humans crave meat? “We have to go back to the days of colonialism when different populations/ethnic groups with different incomes, cultures and perceptions of what meat is and how it should be prepared and consumed, were introduced and developed in South Africa,” Dr Sara Erasmus and Prof Louw Hoffman from the Department of Animal Sciences at Stellenbosch University said. Erasmus is a postdoctoral researcher, and Hoffman is a distinguished professor and member of the South African Research Chairs Initiative specialising in meat sciences with Prof Voster Muchenje of the University of Fort Hare. Erasmus and Hoffman studied the development of South African meat cuisine and managed to trace its roots back to the Dutch settlers, Indo-Asian slaves, indigenous Khoisan, and Black African groups. According to their study recently published in Animal Frontiers, they found that the 17th century colonisation and immigration had significant influence on our meat. “The early Dutch settlers indulged in rabbit, beef, mutton and lamb, pork, hartebeest, eland, wild pig, rhinoceros, hippopotamus, steenbok, ystervark (Cape porcupine), dassie (rock hyrax), wild geese, mountain duck, wild peacock, korhaan (bustard), and different fish species,” they wrote. But the researchers found meat consumption in South Africa began long before the first European colonisers landed in 1652. Indigenous Khoisan hunted wild game for their survival. The settlers also learnt from the indigenous peoples how to source meat through hunting and fishing. “The indigenous Khoisan, Black African groups and settlers trekked across the land and, since food was scarce, nothing of the animal was wasted – from the meat to the intestines,” they said. What we now eat as braai (barbecue), biltong (jerky) and droëwors can also be traced back to the Khoisan who fire-roasted and air-dried their meat. “The slaves brought with them various spices, herbs and cooking styles which were also quickly incorporated into the cuisine and led to the creation of the Cape Dutch cooking style, known for its use of spices such as cinnamon, nutmeg, allspice, and chili peppers.” Hoffman and Erasmus acknowledged that the South African meat cuisine is changing every day with trends, diets, the availability of meat, price, population and ethnic groups playing crucial roles in meat's evolution.  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus