Picnicking is an art and you either have it or you don’t. There are those who can throw together an elegant and relaxed picnic with no apparent effort, while others assemble all sorts of complicated folding apparatus and end up sharing gritty sandwiches with an assortment of biting insects in extreme discomfort. I have survived several interesting phases of picnicking in my life (“interesting” is a word generally used to describe something you will remember, but not necessarily fondly). In the farming community in which I spent my childhood years, the annual picnic was a major event. Neighbours gathered from all around and piles of food and drink were loaded on to a farm trailer and hauled along a bumpy track to a spot beside the river where willows and poplar trees formed a shady canopy usually used by cows sheltering from the Karoo heat. This probably creates a romantic mental picture, but places where cows gather are seldom entirely romantic. My lasting memory of those early picnics is of desperately trying to rescue sunken canoes from the river bed and being surprised that of all the grown-up men in the district, only my father could swim. There must be many fossilised tin canoes embedded in the mud at the bottom of that river. I wonder what archaeologists of the future will make of them. Much later, when I was employed by The Friend newspaper in Bloemfontein, there was an annual picnic known as the wayzgoose (you can look it up), to which all the printers and their families were invited. As I recall, it involved much quaffing among the adults and a certain amount of amorous activity in the shrubs around the Maselspoort pleasure resort. Today I find the simplest picnics to be the most satisfactory. I t’s all about the company and the scenery, really, so as long as you are with a friend or two in a peaceful spot, you need only bring the bare minimum. A bottle of Tassies and a boerie roll work just fine for me. The Persian philosopher-poet Omar Khayyam was right on the button when he wrote: “A book of verses underneath the bough, A jug of wine, a loaf of bread - and thou Beside me singing in the wilderness -  O, wilderness were paradise enow.” You can even manage without the book of verses. Last Laugh Harry was invited to play golf with a couple of colleagues one Wednesday afternoon. He arrived home after dark, looking very haggard. “What on earth happened to you?” his wife asked. “You look exhausted.” “Oh, it was dreadful,” Harry replied. “The boss had a heart attack on the second tee and dropped down dead. “From then on it was hit the ball, 
drag the boss, hit the ball, drag the boss, hit the ball” * "Tavern of the Seas" is a daily column written in the Cape Argus by David Biggs. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus