The total cost for the presence of private security and the erection of tents and perimeter fencing for the exams at UCT is still being tallied, but will run into millions of rand. The institution acknowledged that both the presence of private security and the construction of a single exam venue on the rugby fields were a huge cost “during this financially challenging period”. "UCT deployed private security on campus for the first time this year," UCT spokesperson Elijah Moholola said. "We deeply regret the costs the university has now incurred. As a result of these costs, the university will be restricted in its expenditure elsewhere. "However, we stood to lose significantly more should we have been unable to complete the academic year, with an estimated R500m to R800m loss in revenue should we have had to complete the 2017 academic year in early 2018," he said. He said students registered in 2017 would not have paid additional fees in 2018 and that there would not have been any additional income from fees by the 2018 first-years’ intake who would not be enrolled at UCT. Moholola said violent attacks on UCT’s campus in recent weeks included four arson attempts and forced the institution to take the decision. “The action of the protesters has caused UCT to incur significant costs over the past two years. In 2016 and towards the end of 2015 UCT paid approximately R24.28m, of which R10m was covered by insurance, to secure students, staff and its campuses. This was not a budgeted cost and has increased pressure on the university’s already deeply constrained resources,” he said. Moholola said exams had proceeded without incident and students may apply for a deferred exam - there is a seven-day window after the date of the exam. CPUT Acting Vice-Chancellor Chris Nhlapo said the institution had spent R30m in only three months on private security and construction on the Bellville campus. “In 2015 and 2016 damages to the university were about R50m and we are still tallying the numbers.”  okuhle.hlati@inl.co.za  Cape Argus