Jason is on trial for the alleged murder of his wife Susan Rohde. His defence argues that Susan hanged herself on the bathroom door of the Spier Wine Estate Hotel room the couple had been sharing when she died on July 24 last year. However, a state forensic pathologist, Dr Akmal Khan, under senior state forensic pathologist Deidre Abrahams's supervision, found that her death was due to manual strangulation. On Tuesday, Abrahams raised concerns over the impartiality of defence pathologist Dr Reggie Perumal, who did a second autopsy. She said because he was directly hired and paid by Jason Rohde, Perumal did not independently derive his findings of ligature strangulation. Abrahams said the ideal situation would have been for Rohde’s defence to request that a magistrate order a second autopsy to be made and that the second autopsy be conducted by another state employee. “In forensic pathology one has to be objective and not paid by the client,” said Abrahams, adding that in his report Perumal took the history verbatim from Jason to get to the conclusion of the time of death. “Dr Perumal has put himself in a compromising position by accepting payment,” she said. Abrahams said even his finding of ligature strangulation was a blanket term and not specific. She said he used misleading words. “Ligature strangulation is a blanket term largely used for homicides and a few accidental deaths. The absence of the thyroid fracture in the report is misleading. No X-ray report on the thyroid cartilage was included in the report,” she said. Under cross-examination, Abrahams told defence advocate Graham van der Spuy not to argue Perumal’s track record, but to deal with his professionalism based on this case. Van der Spuy put it to the witness that Perumal’s payment did not deter him from being objective. He referenced Section 35 of the constitution, which dealt with the arrest and detainment of an accused. “The accused has a right to bring forward challenging evidence,” he said.  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus