On Thursday, Susan Rohde’s brother in-law, Peter Norton, said that on the day of the funeral, Jason had not spoken to him even after he had paid for the transportation of Susan’s body to Joburg. Norton said his wife, Susan’s sister Angela Norton, was outraged by Rohde’s infidelity. “There was a sense of compassion and suspicion towards him,” he said. A statement supplied to police by Rohde on the morning of the murder was read out in court. In it, he explained that he and his wife had had a disagreement at about 2.30am on July 24, the day of the murder, last year. Rohde added that after deciding to go for a drink at a friend’s room, Susan had followed. “My wife in her gown and no shoes followed me to his room, in which she tripped and cut her foot and left eyebrow.” He said they had both returned to their room to sleep until she awoke at 7am, still upset, and had gone to the bathroom where she was later found dead. Norton said that when asked by his father-in-law how big the fight was, Jason referred to it as “one of those”. He said the family had not been aware of Rohde’s infidelity and might have judged him. In cross-examination, Pete Mahalik, Rohde’s lawyer, said his client had been ostracised by the deceased’s family, which may have been the reason why he didn’t speak to anyone at the funeral or stay for tea. "My client was treated by your wife and father-in-law as a murderer. He was victimised and ostracised, judged even before his day in court despite the fact that his father-in-law had committed infidelity and your wife wanted to leave you on the day of your wedding,” he said. Mahalik raised the issue of Susan’s mental state. He said her father’s infidelity, her sister’s marital problems and her husband’s infidelity might have accumulated and prompted her to commit suicide. The court heard Susan’s sister had had wedding jitters on the day of her nuptials and separated from her husband three years later. Mahalik said Susan did not think well of her sister. “Susan described Angela as dark, chubby and a liar,” he said. In response Norton replied: “I can’t believe that. They were loving sisters, but I know Susan did think that Angela was a bully. Angela loved her sister. Jason and her father’s infidelity both hit her hard.”  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus