There is no evidence of any interference with the appointment of the new Registrar and the allegations are spurious. Pierre Uys, by his choice, was not part of the process at all. All other political parties participated in the appointment process with the final decision on the preferred candidate being unanimous. It baffles me that the ANC continues to cry foul on this appointment, when they were invited on two occasions by the Speaker to participate in the process, but declined. The former Registrar had indicated his intention to resign last year already, clearly stating 
that he felt that he was being placed in an untenable position and being made to take sides politically. Given the contrived and trivial cases the ANC were bringing before the committee it is no wonder that the Registrar was feeling abused. Initially, Uys was in agreement that a potential conflict of interest existed, but now, upon the resignation of the former Registrar, he states that the position must not be filled. This is not surprising at all, as the last thing the ANC wants is a fully independent and professional investigator who will not be influenced by their badgering and grandstanding. The entire process to find a new Registrar was transparent and inclusive - the ANC's absence notwithstanding. The post was advertised fully within WCPP policy guidelines, namely on Careers24, P-Net and the WCPP website. As the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) of this vacancy are not negotiable, and are taken directly from the WCPP’s Ethics Code, there is no need to consult with any political party before advertising the position. We now have an outstanding candidate in advocate Shawn Willemse, and we wish him all the best in his endeavours to maintain the legal order and decorum of our legislature. He has our full support to conduct his work without fear or favour. * Mark Wiley is the DA Member of the Provincial Legislature (MPL) ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus