Brand was knocked down by a car in 2010 on Ou Kaapse Weg and had his leg amputated. On Sunday, in a similar incident near Simon’s Town, he was knocked down again and the driver sped off. Speaking after surgery, Brand said there were no witnesses to the incident, and that all he wanted to do was to focus on recovering. “He hit me from behind and I went flying and landed on my prosthetic leg. This is the second time and one would never think it would happen again after the trouble I went through getting back on the bike again.” Brand was training for the Cape Town Cycle Tour when he was hit seven years ago, and said he took part in two cycle tours after the first accident. “It was quite a complicated surgery, but it went all right. I had very good surgeons and they did very well. I have one pin in my leg, and they are hoping that will do the trick.” His wife Colleen said her husband was in his mid-70s, and cycling was a big part of his life, particularly after losing his leg. “He has such determination and it’s the thing that makes him feel normal. He feels on par with others his age. When he is walking he’s slow and trailing behind. Cycling is a big part of his life.” She said they were hoping that witnesses would come forward with information. Pedal Power Association chief executive Robert Vogel said they were angered by another hit-and-run involving a cyclist and a motorist “showing no remorse or concern for the condition of a fellow human being”. “The section of road where this hit-and-run took place is currently a construction site, making the south-bound lane much narrower, allowing no space for cyclists and motorists to share the lane. “The road along the False Bay coast is a favourite route for many cyclists and is especially busy over weekends. By waiting until it is safe to pass a cyclist in the construction zone, a motorist might extend his or her travel time by a minute or so, but in doing so they are ensuring the safety of cyclists on the road.” The association called on anyone with information to come forward and send information to liz@pedalpower.org.za.  yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus