Cape Town -  Eight United Democratic Front Veterans and Unite Behind activists are set to appear in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Thursday morning on charges of trespassing. The activists were arrested on Wednesday after a group occupied the National Prosecuting Authority offices in Cape Town. They demanded that NPA head Shaun Abrahams take action against those involved in corruption. They also called for the arrest of President Jacob Zuma. The activists also handed over numerous letters and petitions demanding that the more than 700 charges against Zuma be reinstated against him. Read: #UnitedBehind: Eight arrested after sit-in at NPA office Among those arrested was Zackie Achmat, the South African Communist Party provincial secretary Benson Ngqentsu and former Parliamentary Protection Service Head Zelda Holtzman. Those arrested were taken to Cape Town Central police station where they were kept in holding cells overnight. Achmat took to Twitter and took pictures of the conditions of the holding cells.   Why are @SAPoliceService working in these conditions that arrested people have to endure? @fikilembalula #ArrestZuma accused. pic.twitter.com/IEXw2N0qKZ  — Zackie Achmat (@ZackieAchmat) November 1, 2017   According to a statement by the group, many of them who are being kept in those cells are people who are suffering from diabetes, HIV and asthma and they did not have their medication. The SACP issued a statement strongly condemning the arrest of their provincial secretary. "The SACP in the Western Cape Province strongly condemns the arrest of the Provincial Secretary of the SACP, Comrade Benson Ngqentsu, Comrade Zachie Achmat and six activists of #UniteBehind during a peaceful demonstration at the National Prosecuting Authority offices in Cape Town,” SACP spokesperson Barry Mitchell said. 
 
Mitchell also said that they view this arrest as an abuse of state power to silence, intimidate and arrest those fighting against corruption. "We challenge the ANC to join the fight against corruption as it is the voters and supporters of the ANC who are suffering the most as a result of this corruption.” he added.  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus