In the digital age, this statement from the 17th century has become a self-fulfilling prophesy. I am Nigerian. During the xenophobic attacks in South Africa between 2015 and 2017, I, like many others, had to rely on the often overblown social media accounts of these attacks to frame my judgments about South Africa and South Africans. I came to South Africa last year to begin my doctoral studies at the University of Cape Town, bringing my baggage of fears, doubts, insecurities and preconceived notions. However, I found that I may have been unwittingly fed inaccurate stories of these attacks. I found that as a focused post-graduate student or academic in South Africa, you can live in peace and enjoy amazing opportunities. I found that there are young Nigerian men who do illegal businesses here, top of which is drug dealing. I learnt that it takes two to tango. I found that the videos and images we see on social media were often fake, and not actually emanating from SA but from elsewhere in Africa where there was violence. About three weeks ago, I woke to the news that parents and guardians in the south-eastern part of Nigeria where I come from were in panic, following news that went viral on social media that their children were being injected with a poisonous substance by agents of the Nigerian military. Schools and cities were thrown into pandemonium as parents began to withdraw their children. This went on for a week until the government not only cleared the air, but took steps to restore normalcy, trust and peace in the areas affected. It turned out that the military force was carrying out some well-thought-out PR activity, the first-time ever in decades. How did this happen? Someone, somewhere triggered a false alarm on social media and whipped up some ethnic sentiments and people went bananas. Fake news syndrome is a phenomenon which became a scholarly concept in critique of media landscape from 2016, as a result of the controversies which trailed the recent US presidential election and other political events in Europe. We haven’t forgotten how fake news surreptitiously favoured Donald Trump over Hillary Clinton, and the subsequent rise of populism and post-truth in democratic contexts in different parts of the world. Contexts in which objective facts are less influential in shaping public opinion than appeals to emotions. Of course, fake news in whatever platform it emerges, is often emotionalised and satirised. However, although the concept seems new given its use in public discourse and media commentary in recent times, the notion of fake news has been there from earliest times. Today, the term is used to describe completely fabricated information, deceptive content, as well as distortion of news reports across online spaces particularly; pushed out by internet trolls with vested interests. The digital era has exacerbated the syndrome of fake news. Facebook and Twitter and other bogus platforms have risen in their popularity for pushing the syndrome, and thereby raising moral panics about the impact of this phenomenon on society, democracies and even businesses. Dictionary.com announced a couple of weeks ago that the term will soon find its deserved place in the dictionary. In the age of social media, fake news has become a thing news media and society celebrate and perpetuate. On the internet, “everything seems to be true”, and there is an increasing “rise of alternative facts”. Thanks also to the absence of fact-checking mechanisms and editorial filters on social media. Let’s look at culpability. In understanding where the pendulum for blame for fake news syndrome should swing, I propose we look at three places: the media itself, internet trolls and society. On the side of the media, the argument has been that the media of this century has become highly compromised, having become market-driven. The commercialised and highly profit-driven media of this century aim for sensational content that commodifies audiences in a bid to garner high patronage and views. I recall here the stinging statement Tony Blair made on the eve of his departure as a decade-long prime minister of Great Britain about the media of this century: “The changing context in which communication takes place in the 21st century has led to a more intense form of competition. The result is a media that is increasingly and to a dangerous degree driven by impact. Impact is all that matters. It is all that can distinguish, can arise above the clamour, can get noticed.” Second, let’s look at internet trolls. Trolls are online mischief-makers who incite fights, arguments and online bullying by making inflammatory posts and comments often employing emotionalism and 
sensational appeal. Findings have noted an aim is linked to these individuals’ perverse psychological masturbations, in which they derive a level of joy in upsetting other people. Trolls use fake Twitter and Facebook accounts, photoshopped images and bogus videos. Sadly, some mainstream media, in a bid to make “impact”, give these fake reports the time of day in their pages and airwaves, amassing wide social media views, likes, followers and popularity. Finally, let’s look at society itself. In research I conducted in 2013 and published in a journal, I argued that there is an often-forgotten side of the story: people love sensational, emotionalised news. As Jon Stewart said: “Sensational stories are the junk food of our news diet, the ice-cream sundae that you eagerly gobble up. You know it’s bad for you but it’s delicious. And you can always have a salad tomorrow. It’s the same with news Indeed, an interest in the sensational seems to be, if nothing else, an all-too human quality.”  * Chikezie Uzuegbunam is a PhD scholar at the Centre for Film and Media Studies, UCT. Before his temporary relocation to South Africa, he was a lecturer at Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Nigeria. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus