When I was a high school teacher, I used to refer to school dropouts as casualties of the education system. More than 10 years later, I have seen more and more young women and men becoming casualties of a largely dysfunctional public schooling system. I still somewhat adhere to some of the tenets drawn from the old school of thought of public education, that is learners either pass or fail and that there is nothing wrong in ranking learners whereby some learners are ranked as the top 10 in a class or grade. I am made to understand that those who fail Grade 12 have been offered a second opportunity to give it a try once more. In any way, life is about second, third, fourth (it can go on and on) opportunities. But there are so many other challenges that matrics will be faced with after writing their final exams. Some of the challenges have been there for a long time, for example, the difficulties of finding employment immediately after completing school. This will become worse in 2018 given the deteriorating economic situation of our country. The newly appointed Minister of Finance informed the nation in no uncertain terms that we must prepare ourselves for the worst before the economy could grow and make it possible for job seekers, including Grade 12 school leavers, to get jobs. The sad part is that not all those who pass matric, for all sorts of reasons, will gain entry at universities or colleges. Once more, those who have nothing meaningful to do after matric will end up becoming casualties of our failing public school system. I fear casualties of the school system because some of them end up becoming criminals just to put food on the table. But the greatest threat to the 2017 matric class is that they will be trying to find life opportunities in a society where simple morality is beingeroded from our way of life. The challenge of rapidly decaying moral values could not escape the awareness of the post-apartheid political leadership which quickly acknowledged moral decay as one of the biggest threats that the new South Africa is faced with. On a daily basis, our communities wrestle with issues of decaying morality which manifest themselves in the form of violent killings, women, child and drug abuse (in particular nyaope and the practice of bluetoothing). When the matriculants walk out of the relatively safe confines of school premises, they will on a daily basis have to make moral choices which will determine whether they become productive members of our society or end up being part of the statistics of casualties of our dysfunctional public schooling system. The mere fact that many South Africans are unaware of the existence of a physical office for the Moral Regeneration Movement is a clear reflection on the fact that issues of morality have been removed from our society’s public discourse and engagement. One of the reasons for this is that the very premise for the institutionalisation of moral regeneration was fundamentally flawed. The mammoth task of renewing our society’s moral values and principles was handed over to politicians who are not necessarily the best custodians of moral values and principles. It is a common historical knowledge that politicians may even go to an extent of sacrificing universal principles of morality in pursuit of political power hence the failure of the Moral Regeneration Movement. We as South Africans need to demonstrate strong moral leadership in our own societal institutions. No matter how difficult the socio-economic circumstances may be, we need families which will act as torch bearers in showing the way towards good moral values for our young people. When we destroyed structures of the apartheid system we mistakenly also decimated social structures which helped anchor our moral values and principles. For example, during the apartheid times, we had sections of the townships divided into blocks and "blockmans", (which were men of high moral standing in a particular section of a township) would be responsible for providing moral guidance to families which were experiencing challenges with issues of morality. During the intensification of the struggle against apartheid rule, we replaced the blockmans with street committees and later we crashed street committees. These committees not only served as launching pads of anti-apartheid political activities but they also provided support to families faced with moral crises of whatever nature. They served as pillars of morality for families which were torn apart not only by the violence of apartheid repression but also by ordinary issues of morality which visit any family at one time or another. Community structures would also come in handy during times of distress. I realised the importance of community burial schemes when my mother passed away. A section of township residents had a funeral scheme called "ponto mpate" (one pound, as in the British pound, will bury me). Community members would contribute a small amount of money from each mother which would be used to help with burial costs of their family members. These funeral schemes were managed and sustained by ordinary township folks and promoted moral values of caring and support in times of distress. There are other social and cultural structures which served as bedrocks of good morals for young people and these include Kippies Jazz Club, sporting clubs, township theatre (remember Gibson Kente?), stokvels and other community organisations such as Youth Alive (associated with veteran actor Jerry Mofokeng and Caesar Molebatsi). What structures are there in our communities which could help the matrics of 2017 to adopt a set of moral values which would guide them to become productive and socially balanced individuals in this "mad mad world"? Maybe the starting point should be with each one of us as adults. Simple acts of speaking and acting for what is right can help inspire the 2017 matrics to find ways of upholding good morals in the face of adversity and challenges that lie ahead of them. Moral renewal should begin with each individual, each one of us must undergo what Nelson Mandela called the RDP of the soul and then spread it to our young people, so that they make sense of a world where good morals have been sacrificed on the altar of individual greed and power. * Dr Tutu Faleni (PhD) is a DA Member of the North West Provincial Legislature. He writes in his personal capacity. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus * Click here to win amazing prizes by signing up to receive your Matric Results via IOL.