The theme for this year’s Disability Awareness Month is “Transformation towards a sustainable and resilient society for all”. It’s a particularly apt theme for South Africa where people continue to grapple with transformation and sustainability issues. Disability Awareness Month aims to raise awareness of disability, the rights of people with disabilities, and the gains to be made by integrating people with disabilities in every aspect of political, social, economic and cultural life. With International Day of Persons with Disabilities, also celebrated as National Disability Rights Awareness Day, on December 3, it’s important to create awareness around the issues that 10% of South Africa’s population encounter daily. Historically, three main segments of the South African population have been subject to discrimination: people of colour, women, and people with disabilities. Although the country strives to empower them by ensuring fair treatment and participation for all, people with disabilities continue to be pushed aside. About 10% of the South African population are people with disabilities. According to the World Health Organisation, depression is the leading disability worldwide, and the number of people diagnosed with depression is on the rise. Poverty is one of the main factors leading to depression. This is of great concern, especially as 55% of South Africans live below the poverty line. Disability Awareness Month is is an opportunity for corporate South Africa to spread awareness and education about disability. It highlights the need to drive the inclusion and advancement of people with disabilities, and gives these people a chance to tell their stories. Importantly, we as fellow South Africans need to be listening. And this is what Progression 
(specialists in the field of disability) hopes to promote - listening, understanding and taking action. Most people with disabilities face barriers at every level: employment, education and social and political participation, all basic human rights. Research by Progression shows a mere 5% of people with disabilities have a Grade 12 qualification, and people with disabilities make up less than 1% of the reported workforce. Among the contributing factors are negative attitudes and ongoing discrimination, largely fuelled by a lack of knowledge. By openly discussing this “taboo topic” and educating ourselves, South Africans can help overcome these barriers. * Beth Cook is chief executive of equity solution company, Progression. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus