Maswanganyi said high walls would be erected between communities and railway lines to curb vandalism, and that 60 new trains would be rolled out. He made the comments when he appeared before Parliament's portfolio committee on transport. This came after MPs asked questions in connection with Passenger Rail Agency of SA (Prasa) investigations into maladministration and improper conduct following the release of the “Derailed Report” by former public protector Thuli Madonsela. Madonsela had ordered remedial action by state institutions to probe irregularly awarded contracts worth more than R3.5bn at Prasa. The ANC’s Sbusiso Radebe said Prasa was wasting taxpayers’ money by hiring service providers instead of fixing its trains. Radebe also said Madonsela had ordered that the National Treasury and state organs conduct the investigations. He charged that the amount paid to Werksmans Attorneys could have bought several trains. Maswanganyi said there was a turnaround strategy for Prasa. “One of the things is that the board needs to implement projects that have stalled,” Maswanganyi said. He also said Metrorail in the province was in for massive investment. “In the Western Cape alone we are not to spend less than R8bn to improve Metrorail services,” Maswanganyi said. He said he had spoken to Police Minister Fikile Mbalula to reinforce security in trains to deal with crime. The trains that had been set alight were being repaired in Salt River. “There is progress. We believe we are to bring back not fewer than 60 trains.” Maswanganyi said they understood that people were frustrated by Prasa services while others vandalised trains for their own reasons. Maswanganyi also said his department would recapitalise the signalising system the railway lines as malfunctions led to collisions and late arrival of trains. The ANC study group welcomed the announcement by the minister. Chairperson Dikeledi Magadzi, who is also chairperson transport portfolio committee, said crime and vandalism of the passenger rail system remained a serious cause for concern. “The department must work with law enforcement agencies to ensure that our public infrastructure remains safe and protected.” Cape Argus