Cape Town - Idols SA finalist Paxton Fielies is following in the footsteps of a host of local celebs who all graduated from Belhar High School. The feisty 17-year-old singer from Bishop Lavis has made it to the Top 2 on Idols and on Sunday she will go up against Mthokozisi Ngaba from Durban for the crown. Nobody is prouder than her class teacher Charmin Roman and palie Carl Davids. Mrs Roman says Paxton is an introvert, and has really come out of her shell over the past few weeks. “Paxton really grew during her time on the show. I’m extremely proud of her,” she says. Principal Davids says Belhar High is an arts-focused school that boasts a variety of talent. “We had big names come from this school. Lee-Anne Williams (Expresso), Kim Engelbrecht (actress), Zoe Zana (Idols finalist 2015), Jo-Dee Butler (HeartFM), and even the Daily Voice Live Editor Kim Kay to name a few,” he says. “Paxton is a born singer, here we just refined her singing abilities. We knew she would make it far in the competition. “The first time I heard about Paxton was when the video of her singing on the school during exams this year, went viral.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “I called her to the office to sing for me and I was blown away because I’m a jazz music lover and she sang a jazz song; I forget which one. I thought wow, she is so young and performed such a big song.” Paxton previously said she dropped out of school this year for Idols, but would be finishing both Grade 11 and matric next year. “The new education system accommodates Paxton’s situation, the school-based assessment counts for 75% and the final exam is also part of that assessment. For the six months Paxton was at school, she handed in all her assignments so if she passes Grade 11, we have the proof of all work and marks handed in. “Paxton’s mom explained that Paxton has a long itinerary after Idols ends, so there is a possibility that she won’t come back, but we hope that’s not the case,” Davids says. Catch the Idols SA Grand Finale on Sunday at 6pm on Mzansi Channel 161. Residents will be gathering on a field on Lavis Drive to watch the show on a big screen. Meanwhile, Paxton has released her debut single, called Demonstrate, available for R10 on iTunes.  venecia.america@inl.co.za   Like us on Facebook   Follow us on Twitter 