But he did and now, against all odds and nearly a decade later, Reaaz George went to his matric ball, much to the delight of his family and friends. Reaaz, 18, of Retreat was just seven years old when he was diagnosed with Lymphocytic Leukemia and spent three years at the St Joseph’s Home for Chronically Ill Children. The young boy lost all of his hair, teeth and his gums even turned black due to chemotherapy. His mom, Shanaaz George, 44, says the illness also affected Reaaz’s brain function. But he fought back and three years later, at the age of 10, Reaaz was sent home after his cancer went into remission. Needs He was then placed at Blouvlei LSN, a special needs school in Retreat. On Tuesday, Reaaz’s proud mom and grandma Fosy Meyer, 62, gave him a memorable matric ball, something they thought they would never do. “When he started Grade 1, we started noticing a huge growth at the back of his head,” explains Shanaaz. “He was sent for various tests which determined that he had leukemia.” Shanaaz says her world was shattered. Reaaz was her youngest, she also had two other children, who are now 21 and 23 years old. “I wanted to give up, I also wanted to give up my job,” the mom says. “But how could I give up on him and I had my two other children?” More heartbreak came when Reaaz had to be permanently moved to St Joseph’s. “I was devastated, how could I have my child away from me for three years?” Shanaaz says. Night “But the doctors explained it was for the best because if he became ill during the night, there was an ambulance which could take him to hospital. “His temperature was to stay at a certain level, higher than that then it would be dangerous.” It was a happy day when, three years later, Reaaz was allowed to come home, and “resumed” his 
life, says Shanaaz. “We are so proud of him. They are doing assessments and this is their final year at the school,” she says. “I told Reaaz he needs to appreciate life because we know where he has been and where he is now. We feel happy that we could have given him a matric ball.” Reaaz wore a smart black suit and blue bow tie and the ball was held on the premises of the school. “I feel good,” he tells the Daily Voice. “I just want to say thank you for what everyone has done for me.” Daily Voice