Cape Town - Of the more than 2 000 firearms that have gone missing, stolen or lost by police officers since 2014 only 13 have been recovered in the 2017/18 year. The reasons range from loss while under the influence of alcohol; lost while in the bathroom; liquor-related robberies; theft out of homes and vehicles; loss/theft while executing official duties and theft from state vehicles. In the Western Cape 128 firearms went missing since the 2014 financial year. The Eastern Cape, Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal led the pack in terms of most firearms reported missing over the four years.  Some 432 guns went missing in the Eastern Cape, Gauteng lost 448 and KZN had the most missing firearms – 506. Gun Free SA spokesperson Claire Taylor said: "Once a legal gun leaks into the illegal market, no laws regulate who can own or use it or how it can be used. Guns can be used over and over again to commit crimes. They have no sell-by date." The focus needed to be on taking away guns already on  the streets and to stop more guns getting into circulation. “The government can either recover the guns through intelligence-driven search and seizure operations or they can be handed in during a national firearms amnesty or gun buy-back," she said. "Closing the tap involves more strictly regulating legal guns to reduce the risk of them leaking into the illegal pool." South Africa’s gun law is world class and has saved thousands of lives between 2000 and 2010 by ensuring only "fit and proper" manufacturers, traders and owners were granted gun licences. “However, a law is only as good as its enforcement; strong gun laws save lives, but poor enforcement kills,” Taylor said. Lizette Lancaster, project manager of the Crime and Justice Analysis Hub at the Institute for Security Studies, said there would be a decrease in violent crimes if fewer guns were on the streets. “Gun control has been proven to make a difference. In 18 years we saw a 55% decrease in murder – a significant number. It is important that guns do not fall into the hands of people not skilled or capable of dealing with them.” More stringent processes were needed to stop guns falling into the wrong hands. SSA Police Union (Sapu) general secretary Oscar Skommere said officers were taught to keep their firearms safe. Failure to do so could lead to fines and suspension, depending on how they were lost. "If you cannot explain or they are not convinced you did your best to protect your firearm you end up being charged. If it contributed to a crime you can get dismissed."  yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus