When Mr Rich walks into his penthouse office his secretary hands him his day’s programme: “You’re meeting Johnson and Co at 9.30am, then seeing heads of department at 11am before lunch at the Ritz at 12pm with the chief executive of Star Transport. "You’re booked for a haircut at 2.30pm and a gym session at 4pm. It’s your wife’s birthday and I’ve booked a table for two at the Grand for 7.30pm. I’ve bought the necklace she wanted and had it gift wrapped. Don’t forget your early flight to Dubai tomorrow. The car will pick you up at 6.30am. Anything else, sir?” Lucky Mr Rich! His time is so valuable he can’t afford any of it for himself. He can schedule a game of golf on a Wednesday afternoon, but that’s as much a part of his job as anything else. His normal foursome consists of business associates. He may even hate golf, but what would the chaps say if he cancelled? No, that’s not an option. Down at the bottom rung of the economy ladder Jimson has been retrenched from his job at the sock factory after the Chinese came in with their cheap products, so he gets out of bed at 10, makes a cup of coffee and decides what to do with his day. It’s spread out ahead of him like a blank canvas. Maybe he’ll mow the lawn, take the dog for a walk and end up at the pub for a beer with Charlie, who was head sock inspector until the Chinese came. He’ll be home at 3pm to help the kids with their homework, then help Mary cook the supper and later they’ll sit on the stoep and chat until bedtime. “I think I’ll see if there’s any of that paint left over from the garage door and paint the front gate tomorrow if it’s a nice day. On the other hand I might take the fishing rod down to the jetty and see whether I can catch something for a braai." Decisions, decisions. Hey, it’s a tough life when you only have cheap time to spend. Last Laugh A minibus taxi driver died and arrived at the gates of Heaven and was surprised to find the pastor of his church in front of him in the queue. When they reached the front of the queue, St Peter greeted the pastor kindly and directed him to a modest home with a small garden. Then he greeted the taxi driver enthusiastically and showed him to a great mansion with rolling gardens and a heated swimming pool. The pastor was rather miffed and asked whether St Peter had perhaps got them mixed up. “No,” said St Peter, “we go strictly on results here. Down there, when you preached, people slept. When he drove, people prayed.” * 'Tavern of the Seas' is a daily column written by David Biggs ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media dbiggs@glolink.co.za Cape Argus