Wednesday's march was organised by the Muslim Judicial Council and the Ihata Shelter. Ihata director Nuraan Osman said yesterday was historic. “As the religious fraternity, civil society human rights activists and all those who care for others stand together in a mission to stop the violence in a community so fraught with gender-based violence. “Gender-based violence is of pandemic proportions and is a profound and widespread problem, almost seeming normal these days. The expectations associated with different genders vary from society to society and over time,” she said. Osman said no religion condoned violence against women and children. “In our homes we need to stop perpetuating social norms that are unhealthy. Ones that say girls are less valuable than boys. Girls must do household chores and boys must lay on the sofa playing games. Our girl children must be taught their value so that they will not stand by and allow themselves to be subjected to a process of dehumanisation through abuse and violation. “Islam liberated women 1400 years ago and today we still argue about whether men have the right to beat women or not. It is our belief that when men beat, rape and murder women, that they are not only immature in resolving conflict but are brutal perpetrators and murderers.” She said 60% of women suffer at the hands of intimate partners. Intimate partner violence is the most common form of gender-based violence. “It is the worst violation since it is from the hand of someone you love and trust. “It is a profound human rights violation with major social and developmental impacts for survivors of violence, as well as their families, communities and society more broadly,” Osman said. Human rights commissioner Chris Nissen said he commended the MJC for taking such a bold step in organising the march. “We should not keep silent about abuse and sexual violence. Especially if we think about the alarming rate of child murders and rapes in the Cape Flats. “It is like an ongoing war and it is intensifying. We need everyone in society to stand up against it," he said. Regional head of the department of justice and constitutional development advocate Hishaam Mohamed, who also took part in the march, said most of the murders were committed by people known to the victims. “But it is also not too late for people who are guilty of violence to repent,” he said. rusanaphialnder1@gmail.com For 16 Days of Activism to end violence against women and children, Independent Media will bring you stories behind the statistics. Please DONT LOOK AWAY. We can all make a difference by supporting victims and organisations working to build a future without violence. Cape Argus