The Organ Donor Foundation said as South Africa celebrates 50 years since the first heart transplant, there has been a dramatic drop in heart donations. Spokesperson for the organisation Jooste Vermeulen said they believe that people do not have enough information for them to make an informed decision. “What happens is that the family has to give consent. In South Africa they will not do it if the next of kin is not okay with it, even if you are a registered donor - if the family still do not feel comfortable, their wishes will be respected.” Vermeulen said cultural and traditional views were critical to them. “The older generation are still the decision-makers and they still have doubts. "When you talk about cultural reasons, you find they have information but are not fully informed. It's the uncertainty that brings the problem and we want to educate people.” He said one organ donor can save seven lives and enhance the quality of life of up to 50 people. The foundation said despite making history in performing the first heart transplant, South Africa has seen a 40% decline in the number of heart transplants done. Dr Velaphi Mkhize, founder and president of the Umsamo Institute and Healers Association, said according to African cultures, taking an organ out of someone was not allowed. “The belief is that a person is a spirit and that the spirit is the one that joins the person with the ancestors. The body comes in because the shape of the spirit is the shape of the body, and for the spirit to be perfect, nothing must be broken.” He said they understood that we live in a “scientific world” but many families were still against allowing their own to be organ donors. “There are people that like to donate organs and those do it on their own, and the family usually does not agree with that. Most people have moved away from African tradition and have been influenced by different religions.” Mkhize said when a donor is alive and there's a need for an organ transplant, like a kidney, the case would be different and the transplant would be allowed,  “Because in African tradition we come from a belief that we share and we take care of each other.”  yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus