Cape Town - Suspended CBS This morning anchor Charlie Rose has apologised for his inappropriate behaviour and said he is “greatly embarrassed”. Rose released a statement on Twitter after the Washington Post  published claims from eight women who has accused Rose of sexual misconduct. The woman who wanted to work for his PBS program described Rose making unwanted sexual advances in the 1990’s through 2011. “I have behaved insensitively at times, and I accept responsibility for that, though I do not believe that all of these allegations are accurate” Rose said. He added that he has learned a lot as a result of the events that are unfolding. On Wednesday's  CBS This Morning  started its bulletin with Rose’s suspension, “Welcome to CBS this morning we going to begin with news that affects all of us at this broadcast and at this network. CBS news has suspended our co-host Charlie Rose over allegations of sexual misconduct,” co-anchor Norah O’Donnell said. ALSO READ: Charlie Rose suspended after damning sex allegations The two anchors, Gayle King and O’Donnell, have worked with Rose for many years and on Tuesday morning the clearly distraught pair struggled to read the autocue and were deeply saddened. Rose is a veteran broadcaster who has been for 45 years in the industry, he has interviewed many celebrities including leaders and political figures. Among the people he's interviewed is Russian president Vladimir Putin, Steve Jobs and former president Bill Clinton. He has anchored CBS this morning since 2012. King told viewers this morning that she “is not okay”. “I had an hour and forty-two minutes of sleep last night both my son and my daughter called me, including Oprah Winfrey, called. After reading that article in the Post it was deeply disturbing and painful for me to read,” King said. Rose is the latest man who has been accused for sexual misconduct it comes after a string of incidents had emerged straight out of Hollywood. It’s also part of a social media campaign which took twitter by storm. The #MeToo has gained momentum after it denounced sexual harassment and sexual misconduct. Millions have come forward sharing their experiences many of them including celebrities. Cape Argus