This was the essence of a plea for help from NGOs and community-based organisations interviewed about their views on abuse and sexual violence. It is also for this reason that community group the Mitchells Plain Crisis Forum has started to lobby for all rape and murder suspects to be denied bail. “In all the cases in which we assisted, we have found all the victims knew and had trusted the suspects. "People never suspected them. They were among the people who helped search for the victims. "Because we are from this community, we want justice for the families of all these victims. If justice is done, it will send out a strong message to other perpetrators,” said forum chairperson and co-founder Joanie Fredericks. The forum assisted the family of murdered Courtney Pieters, the 3-year-old Elsies River child whose body was found in a shallow grave days after she went missing earlier this year. Mortimer Saunders, who lived with the family, is expected to go on trial on February 5. Victims’ families were frustrated by delays in court cases, said Fredericks. “The families of the kids want justice. They feel strongly about harsh sentences for perpetrators and they want them to remain in prison. "It is especially over the festive season when a lot of domestic violence happens. This is when alcohol abuse plays a big role,” she said. Rape Crisis Cape Town Trust director Kathleen Dey said only one in 13 sexual offences gets reported to the police. “It makes it difficult to know the true extent of the problem, let alone whether it is on the increase or not. "Because of the way the police collect and disseminate statistics about reported sexual offences, we have no idea whether or not there is an increase in incidents,” she said. Lucinda Evans, whose organisation Philisa Abafazi Bethu works with abused women and children, said more specialised services were needed at police stations to assist victims of violence and abuse. “Police stations and not all officers are equipped to deal with trauma. Victims still do not feel comfortable to report cases at police stations. "I also think domestic violence needs to be taken more seriously,” she said. Manenberg community worker Roegshanda Pascoe, who is also vocal about violence and abuse, said creating awareness was key. “People on the Cape Flats are sick and tired of all the abuse and killings of innocent children. "Just the other day an 11-year-old was sodomised. This is why those who have raped and killed should not get parole, because the chances are big that they will commit those crimes again. "What really frustrates me is that politicians do not understand what is happening in our communities. "Because if you do not understand this, you will not be able to solve the problem,” she said. E-mail your comment/views to arglet@inl.co.za Cape Argus