The Steenbras catchment area is part of the Table Mountain Group Aquifer (TMGA), a deep-lying group of rock formations or layers that extend from Van Rynsdorp to Cape Town and from Cape Town to Port Elizabeth. De Lille said the TMGA had the potential to develop a large scale scheme to augment the City’s water supply on a more permanent basis. “The City is currently drilling test abstraction boreholes in the Steenbras catchment area, which will inform the design of a full-scale wellfield and support a water use licence application for full-scale production," she said. “The City has also identified other areas with access to the TMG aquifers that could be developed as part of the broader water resilience project that aims to ensure water security in the years beyond 2018." De Lille said the yield from the other areas of the TMGA such as the Helderberg, South Peninsula and Wemmershoek would be approximately 50 to 60 million litres a day, while the Steenbras project could see a yield of 10 million litres a day. “This project is part of the City’s commitment to do everything it can to bring additional water online as we face the worst drought in our recorded history,” De Lille said. She congratulated Capetonians on their water saving - "Day Zero" has been moved from March to May 13 next year. “If every person does not reduce his or her water use to 87 litres per person a day, there is still a risk that residents will have to queue for water daily at collection sites across the city,” she said. Two months ago the city council announced it would be spending R8 billion on its water infrastructure over the next 10 years. During the 2015/16 financial year, the city spent R1.2bn on water engineering, refurbishment and replacement infrastructure. Meanwhile, tourists visiting the city will also be advised on how to save water while they enjoy their stay in the mother city. Wesgro and the Western Cape Government, in partnership with Airbnb and CapeNature, will announce a new campaign to help tourists save water. Wesgro spokesperson Russel Brueton said: “Tourism is an important contributor to economic growth and job creation; in 2016 tourism supported 319 227 jobs and contributed R38.8bn to the local economy. Tourists are welcome to the Western Cape, but we are doing everything we can to ensure that they contribute to the province’s water saving efforts.”  zodidi,dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus