Teams will be competing at the Chukker Road Sports Complex in Landsdowne on Thursday and Friday. On Saturday, the final round of matches will be played at the Basil D’Oliveira sports complex in Briana Crescent, Elfindale. President of the St Augustine Cricket Club Johnny Jacobs had plenty to say about the history of the club and the meaning of the tournament. “Development of the youth has been the aim of the club since its establishment in 1899. We don’t just want to teach the participants of this tournament how to play cricket. We want to teach them how to become leaders in their communities and also develop their social skills to combat the issues that thrive around them,” he said. Partners like the City of Cape Town have proven to be great cornerstones of the festival. City councillor JP Smith said the city was very excited to be a partner in honouring a legend of D’Oliveira’s calibre. “It is tournaments such as these that serve as a great platform to discover new talent and the future generations of sports like this and others alike. The City of Cape Town is very happy to have its weight behind this initiative. “This tournament will give young people the opportunity to build character to break free from the social ills that confine them. I urge all community members and parents of the participants to come out and support. We so often tend to complain about the conditions of the communities our children have to grow up in. Now is the time  to support a cause that will allow them to emerge from their negative circumstances,” he said. Mayor Patricia de Lille is also an avid supporter of the tournament. “Basil was one of the greatest cricket players in Cape Town, and in the world, in fact. His story continues to inspire people and cricket lovers all over the globe. This tribute to his legacy serves as a great platform to unite the people of Cape Town. It is events such as this that strengthens the City and its people,” the mayor’s spokesperson, Zara Nicholson said. The club is hoping to make this tournament a national fixture under the banner of Basil D’Oliveira. Jacobs said: “D’Oliveira’s father, who was the president of the club in his time, used to walk from door to door in Signal Hill to get children to join the club to keep them away from negative influences on the streets. This kind of passion is what drives St Augustine to reach out to underprivileged communities. Cape Argus