The City said vandalism, theft of city property and other crimes had prompted the erection of the fence. But, residents and property owners of 58th Avenue flats in Wynberg claim no alternative strategies were explored to resolve the problems that the fence seeks to address. They also said the public had not been approached. “The fence first came to our attention only last week when construction began. None of the property owners and residents in the area were either notified or consulted about the proposed fence,” said Miriam Wheeldon. Writing on behalf of the residents to Councillor Elizabeth Brunette of Ward 62, Wheeldon said: “Key users of the park who will be affected by the enclosure of the park include the many residents of greater Cape Town who drive to the park on the weekends. "Our experience of the park as residents that live on it is of a fully functional, safe, clean and beautiful and well-organised open space. "We are not aware of serious crime and other antisocial issues but if the fence is being erected to resolve these problems, we consider it an irrational and exorbitant response that will not resolve but exacerbate them.” The city said it could not continue to fork out money for repair and replacement of damaged property. “What has unfortunately become evident while implementing these upgrades is the numerous safety and security-related issues that threaten the sustainability of our efforts. It has already resulted in significant operational expense for the continual repair and replacement of damaged infrastructure,” said mayco member for Area South Eddie Andrews. He said the fence was part of a master plan for city parks formulated in 2014. “A year ago park rangers with the necessary training and expertise had been deployed and were effective, but at an unsustainable cost. The park is 23 hectares and preventing incidents at night has been an impossible task as people are able to access the site from every possible angle and they have the added advantage of large tracts of vegetation and darkness to conceal their actions. “The city’s Recreation and Parks Department considers residents’ objections in a serious light and is currently assessing alternative fencing routes which may be more favourable for everyone concerned. Once assessed, the city will meet with residents again.”  okuhle.hlati@inl.co.za  Cape Argus