Cape Town – The Cape Argus is launching the Clean Your Hood campaign on Monday as people across the globe mark World Environment Day. Cape Town is regarded as the most beautiful city in the world, but like many other cities, it has several challenges. We believe one of those challenges is overcoming the scourge of littering, dumping and the destruction of the environment. In many of our neighbourhoods, particularly in our disadvantaged communities, dumping and littering are taking place without a second thought. There is also a total disregard for the environment. In some areas young children are exposed to unhygienic conditions while residents have to encounter the eyesore of rubbish or litter dumped in our neighbourhoods. Clean Your Hood is clarion call to all Capetonians to do what they can to keep neighbourhoods clean. The call is not about attributing blame, but merely raising awareness. It is an appeal to residents of the Mother City to become more civil-minded and to be conscious about the environment. As part of the Clean Your Hood we invite people to write to us, send in pictures or videos and tag us in their Twitter, Facebook and Instagram posts of their neighbourhoods before and after they had been cleaned up. Also, feel free to write to us with your tips to arrest the dumping and littering problem. With the support of Peninsula Beverages, prizes will be offered. They may be in the form of vouchers for cleaning tools or gardening items and equipment will be offered to neighbourhoods being cleaned up and kept clean by residents. We'll publish your stories and pictures. We also invite to schools, community organisations and religious groups to take part. We invite Cape Town's business community to join the campaign by "adopting" streets in disadvantaged areas. While the authorities can do more to clean up our communities, we believe all of us, young and old should shoulder some responsibility for keeping our and our city clean and protecting the environment.