Pooke se Bos residents have been occupying private land on Pooke Road for more than two decades. Last year, the City of Cape Town purchased a portion of the private land occupied, from businessman Kantielal Patel, to develop housing for people living in the informal settlement. Pooke se Bos community leader Mieta Hofstander said the piece of land is behind the informal settlement, bordering Repulse Road and Jane Avenue. She said it is close to residential properties. “They showed us plans to develop 143 plots on that piece of land, 136 of those plots would be for our registered people. The project was supposed to start January this year, but it has been stopped,” she said. Hofstander said the stumbling block was the Rylands/Gatesville Civic Association which had objected to the plans. “They are stopping this project from continuing because they do not want us among them. They fear the value (of) their property will depreciate. If they withdraw all that nonsense, this development could proceed,” she said. Mayco member for transport and urban development, Brett Herron, confirmed the land purchased would be developed to accommodate families living in the informal settlement. “There were some objections to the initial proposal. The original proposal for development envisaged various accommodation options that may not have been acceptable to the broader community. The city is reviewing the proposed development for this piece of land to ensure that it is acceptable to all,” said Herron. Sataar Parker of the civic association denied the allegations. “We don’t want them to leave, but if the city will give them a serviced piece of land next to the homes we would object, but if it is proper housing we will not object. “We just don’t want a repeat of another shanty town. We want them to get housing and we will be their neighbours for the rest of their lives,” said Parker. Herron said the city would in due course engage with the families in Pooke se Bos to ensure that there is an understanding of the planned development. However, the residents were adamant that they would not vacate the land they were occupying if they are not being moved to houses. “We won’t move to shacks, we will never do that. The mayor promised us houses and she said she is not a liar,” said Hofstander. Shihaam Esau, a resident, said they were frustrated with the delays. Esau had been living in Pooke se Bos for 17 years. She said her children were not safe in the area.  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus