Cape Town – The Western Cape government has released an inception amount of R75 million to kickstart rebuilding and repairing areas damaged by the Cape storm and the Garden Route fire. In a special cabinet meeting held in Knysna yesterday, Premier Helen Zille said the allocation of the funds to assist with the disasters and municipalities worst affected by the ongoing drought was done in terms of section 25 of the Public Finance Management Act. Provincial Finance MEC Dr Ivan Meyer was authorised to release funds from the Provincial Revenue Fund which allows for the expenditure in “exceptional circumstances”. The province also petitioned for extra funding from the National Disaster Management Centre and the National Treasury. The amount will be allocated as follows: R5m to Public Works and Transport to fix roads plus R800 000 for the transport cost of the emergency evacuations; R15m for repairing storm and fire damaged schools; R1.2m for storm and fire damaged health facilities; and R15m for the repairs to the Swartland Hospital. Other allocations include: R7.5m for Human Setttlements to assist with housing disasters and displaced people, especially in rural areas; R5m for Social Development to provide emergency humanitarian support; R15m to Local Government for disaster management co-ordination, drought assistance and assisting municipalities; R5.5m to the agricultural sector; R3m for Environmental Affairs and Development Planning for CapeNature and Working on Fire; and R2m for Community Safety to manage security at care facilities. Zille and Meyer thanked all disaster relief crews from several rescue agencies, Eskom, Telkom, and four major banks, cell phone companies, major retail stores, food companies and DHL who delivered 284 tonnes of aid to Knysna. Donations came from far and wide as South Africans opened their hearts and wallets. An amount of R700 000 was collected at Old Mutual, a whopping R10m came from Standard Bank for Cape storm and fire relief, R25 000 in goods from the Israeli Embassy and nearly R1m from the South African National Zakah Fund. Donations were also made online with Finova Consultants raising R240 678.48 and former Knysna native Natalie Grundlingh, who now lives in the UK, raising £22 191 (R37 1255.43). President Jacob Zuma and cabinet ministers are set to visit Knysna on Thursday.        