Cape Town - In the heart of an ordinary Grassy Park suburb, there is a beautiful, tranquil oasis that takes one's breath away. A year ago the park in South Close consisted of a children’s merry-go-round, a few sad pepper trees, thorns, scraggly grass, broken glass bottlenecks and fragments of glass... that is, until 65-year-old retiree Kenneth Felix began to clean and plant in earnest. “This park has given me a new lease on life. I was looking for a challenge and this good challenge came along. At first I couldn’t foresee what the park would turn into but as I worked away, the puzzle pieces began to appear,” said Felix with a joyous giggle. Felix’s puzzle pieces have come together in a beautiful way, forming a picture of interesting features, overflowing pots, logs, stones, lavender, aloes, coastal rosemary, varnished benches, colourful wooden table rounds built around the trees and beautifully painted vibracrete walls. Felix scours dumpsites for his found objects and other than the gift of paint and vital gardening implements from Coca Cola Peninsula Beverages, compost, gravel and some water-wise plants from the city council depot at Hillstar, he pays for extras out of his own pocket. The park has drawn people together, as it has evolved into a place for young and old to play together, picnic and to reflect on life and the way of the world. “If an idea pops up or I see something that I can use, I bring it to the park. I thank God every day for refreshing this body. Wherever I see a plant lying around or dumped, I use it. And each day I am surprised at what we could achieve in a year,” said Felix.   With the blooming of the garden, the birds, the bees and the butterflies have moved into the area. Of course, there is a bird bath for them too, and they usually visit around 4 pm, he said. Felix, said he tried his hand at vegetables but he found that the waterwise plants worked better in the contained areas of the park. The park has also become a place of outreach for Felix who does “not chase away” the passersby, many of them wayward youth, who he takes time to talk to and educate about the beauty of gardening. The park has lead to Felix and his friend helping out elderly people with their neglected gardens and he even has dreams of donations of paint that he can use to paint other tired, old vibracrete walls in his neighbourhood.