Police made a breakthrough in the case yesterday as they arrested a man from the same area Minentle stayed in with her grandmother Thelma Bomela, in Nomzamo, Strand. Minentle went missing on Saturday while playing outside her home. Her mutilated body was found under a bridge in Broadway Park road in Strand, about a 1km from where she stayed. Her family fears the child may have been raped. The pyjama pants she was wearing were below her knees when her father, Siyabonga Bomela, found her after he had been informed that a child’s body had been found on Sunday. “Our prioritised around-the-clock investigation into the brutal murder of Minentle Lekhatha on Sunday in Lwandle led a group of detectives to a 35-year-old suspect from the same area earlier today,” said police spokesperson Andre Traut. “Our investigation into the case is yet to be finalised, and the finer aspects of the suspect’s apprehension cannot be disclosed at this stage. The safety of  children is a top priority for the Western Cape police and we will make every endeavour to ensure that offenders are brought to book to face the full consequences of their ruthless deeds,” said Traut. Minentle’s aunt, Puseletso Lekhatha, said they were relieved a suspect had been arrested. She said Minentle’s mother had been taken to a doctor as she found it difficult to come to terms with the loss. “We’ve heard that someone has been arrested. “All we want to know is who he is. Any kind of good news is very much welcomed because of the situation we find ourselves in. It is really difficult. We want the law to take its course,” she said. Minentle was the fourth child to be murdered in the Western Cape in four weeks. The provincial Department of Social Development said it would dispatch social workers from the Metro East regional office to render trauma and bereavement counselling. “We took the child’s mother to a doctor because she was battling to sleep. I think this will help her find some kind of closure. We just want to see him as a family. There is nothing we can do to him,” Lekhatha said. While the suspect will appear in the Strand Magistrate’s Court tomorrow. Nomzamo ward councillor Sithembele Mfecane has appealed to residents to remain calm and not take the law into their own hands. “The most important thing is that we address the safety of our children. We wish that the suspect does not get bail,” he said.