Senami Syce, Acting Head of Department (HOD) of the Intermediate and Senior phase, said that the school is a "safe haven" for the children, and it’s difficult to tell the pupils they are unable to complete a task or activity due to vandalism. "It affects them when I tell them that they can or can’t use a bathroom, because urinals were taken off the wall or the taps were damaged," Syce said. "Not a lot of things have been stolen, but it gets damaged. It’s vandalism more than theft. "We’ve had about 10 break-ins for this term alone. The department does provide security over the holidays but during the term we’re responsible for our own security. We have night security, but it seems like the vandals are timing them. "They mostly enter via the roof, and over weekends, causing severe water damage. They damaged the boys bathroom one week, and girls the next weekend." Syce said the school does its own fundraising as they are no fee-paying school. They fix damages using some of money raised meant to pay teachers. She said almost every Monday when the teachers get to school, there’s a new problem for them to face. The community calls the police when they see people trying to break in but it seems the officers don’t respond in time, Sycem said. "It’s a systematic invasion of the school. Certain areas are closed so they can’t get in, but they are causing petty damages." Syce said it was also frustrating for teachers. A Grade 1 teacher had assessments and workbooks damaged by water due to taps being vandalised. "Almost every Monday we have to switch the water off to fix pipes that have been damaged." "It's so demoralising and seeing the damage that people are doing in this little safe haven. It’s become demoralising especially for teachers who have worked her for 20 years, and you’re almost pre-empting the drama before you get here. "I just want to teach, as that is what I love doing." The Western Cape Education Department (WCED) confirmed there had been at least eight cases of burglary. "The school has experienced eight burglaries. An official from our district office visited the school again (on Tuesday) to do an assessment," said Millicent Merton, WCED spokesperson. "The school received night security, however the break-ins happened during the day over the weekend. The school will now receive 24 hour security over weekends," she said.  theolin.tembo@inl.co.za  Cape Argus