They are calling on owners and associations to address this
lawlessness. "This is unacceptable and absolutely shocking. Last Thursday, officers on point duty at the intersection of Chestnut Way and Erica Drive in Belhar spotted a driver committing several National Road Traffic Act violations. "When they stopped the vehicle, they found 32 passengers in the taxi, of which 14 were standing," said mayoral committee member for safety and security, JP Smith. The traffic officials also discovered the driver was unlicensed, which resulted
in his arrest and the vehicle being impounded. He appeared in the Bellville Magistrate’s Court and is out on bail of R800. Smith said he understood there was immense pressure on the public transport system, as well as the people who relied on it to get to work, but this was no excuse as the incidents did nothing for the taxi industry’s reputation. On the same morning, officers on duty in Adderley Street spotted another loaded taxi speeding through an intersection.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. They gave chase and pulled over the vehicle, only to discover the driver was under the influence of alcohol. Provincial Traffic spokesperson Jacques Mostert condemned the incidents, and said taxi drivers who were overloading must be careful as they had strict laws. "These drivers are deliberately disrespecting our traffic rules. This is unacceptable. They are endangering the lives of road users. Overloading has been recognised to be both a safety concern as well as a cost concern. "Overloading can damage vehicles, especially freight vehicles. The vehicle will be less stable, difficult to steer and take longer to stop. "Vehicles react differently when the maximum weights that they are designed to carry are exceeded." Mostert said the public must be made aware that it is not normal for taxis to be overloaded. "They must know they have the right to refuse to be in a taxi in that state." Cape Argus