Cape Town Train drivers belonging to the United National Transport Union (Untu) will no longer be working on the notorious Central Line between Langa and Cape Town. The union represents close to 50% of the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) employees and called for the rail company to suspend Metrorail services in those areas until the Western Cape High Court makes a ruling on the union s application against Prasa over the safety of its members. Over the past few weeks commuters have seen an increase in train delays and cancellations which have been attributed to technical faults and cable theft. On Monday, yet another train was torched during rush hour at Nyanga Junction. Hours earlier, a train driver was held at gunpoint at a red signal at the Bonteheuwel Station. Untu general secretary Steve Harris said: &quot;Prasa is already experiencing a shortage of train drivers as several of them have resigned (during) the past financial year in pursuit of safer working conditions in the private sector. One of the core functions of a train driver is to focus on the signals to ensure rail safety, but due to the ongoing attacks on train crews across the country, train drivers are forced to constantly be on the lookout for criminals. They struggle to focus on the signals. &quot;It is not only the train drivers who are exposed, but all Prasa employees working on this line. They work in constant fear knowing that most of them are the only providers for their families.&quot; Since the beginning of 2017, 28 carriages have been torched according to regional Metrorail spokesperson, Riana Scott. Scott said a new fleet of trains was anticipated in the next three years. She said apart from the age of the rolling stock and associated infrastructure, high level of vandalism and theft impacted on the service. Scott confirmed Prasa acting chief executive, Dries van der Walt, was meeting with Untu regarding their concerns. Cape Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Janine Myburgh said businesses bore the brunt of unreliable public transport due to the late arrival of workers and loss of productivity. &quot;It has become clear that the traffic situation worsens when the Metrorail system is in trouble and it is becoming clearer by the day that money which should have been spent on maintenance, security and modernisation has been consumed by corruption. &quot;This is corruption of the worst kind and the people of Cape Town are feeling the pain. We even had a chief engineer with fake qualifications involved in the ordering of the Spanish locomotives that proved to be unsuitable for our narrow rail tracks,&quot; she said. Southern African Clothing and Textile Workers' Union (Sactwu) co-ordinator Fachmy Abrahams said due to delays, salaries were being docked. &quot;(The) bulk of our workers use trains and almost every day they suffer deductions. They lose anything from R300 to R400 a day and that loss is also reflected on their benefits such as provident funds. This is creating a growing frustration and despite their understanding of the late comings, employers still deduct.&quot; Executive director of Apparel Manufacturers of SA (AMSA) Johann Baard said the Metrorail crisis would cause the death of the manufacturing industry in Cape Town. He said tens of millions of rand is lost annually. &quot;Employers suffer because retailers are cancelling orders or they take the order and impose penalties. Loss of production can t be retrieved from workers. This is a highly competitive environment and requires a world class transport system,&quot; Baard said. [email&#160;protected]Cape Argus