The city has received close to 11 000 complaints from residents to restore services over their storm damage hotlines that were operational during the adverse weather. Most of the 10 967 complaints related to power outages and roofs that were blown off. The city said they were working around the clock to restore the power in some areas. The city’s Disaster Risk Management Centre said damage as a result of the gale force winds was reported in Mitchells Plain, Lavender Hill, Ottery, Delft, Philippi and Nyanga. Disaster risk management spokesperson Charlotte Powell said the City’s Informal Housing Department was assisting the communities. “They are receiving meals, food parcels, blankets and clothing. We are still busy removing uprooted trees in a number of areas such as Kewtown, Newlands, Rondebosch, Bergvliet, Belgravia and various other areas in the metropole. The City’s Electricity Services Department has also been attending to power lines downed by the storm,” Powell said. A family in Lavender Hill whose roof was blown off by the storm are staying in containers which the City of Cape Town has provided. Jerome Mostert said that, according to the council it would take a few weeks to repair their roof and other damage the storm had caused to their flat. Mostert’s wife and child were slightly injured in the incident. André Weber said a tree that was uprooted and damaged his fence and vehicles in Ottery was removed within a day. “Four other trees that were also uprooted in our neighbourhood were also removed the same day,” he said. Power outages were also restored at Steenberg police station and the Camps Bay law enforcement office. Meanwhile, Premier Helen Zille, extended her gratitude to all who had assisted during the storm in Cape Town and the fires in Knysna, which saw the evacuation of about 10 000 residents, many of whom lost their homes and possessions. “What we saw in the last week was an unprecedented natural disaster, that required an unprecedented response." “While we are saddened by the loss of life, we commend the brave efforts of the men and women who consistently show up for duty and put their lives on the line for our safety. Our responsibility is to stand with the communities of Knysna and surrounding areas to rebuild for the future,” Zille said. Cape Argus