Communications Minister Ayanda Dlodlo said some of the money owed, dating back to April 2014, would be paid between October and December, or as and when funds became available. Replying to a parliamentary question from the DA's Phumzile van Damme, Dlodlo said the biggest amount of R52.7m was owed to South African Music Performance Rights Association (Sampra) and Independent Music Performance Rights Association (Impra). The amount dates to March 2014. She said both collecting societies have not agreed on the percentage split of the amount based on the play history reports SABC has generated. “A decision was made that both societies must submit their repertoires lists to SABC for final verification, which the SABC agreed (was) due end of May 2017. “Both societies have submitted the repertoires lists for verification process, which is still ongoing.” She also said R14.5m was owed to the Southern African Music Rights Organisation (Samro) as of April 2017. “This is based on March 2017 revenue. Payout of Samro is scheduled for the third quarter for the 2017-18,” she said about the planned payment in October and December later this year. Payments would be made to Sapra and Impra once the verification was completed and agreed upon by all parties, she said. The Association of Independent Record Companies (Airco) was owed R2.8m and Recording Industry of South Africa (Risa) R2.4m for the October 2016-April 2017 and January 2017-April 2017, respectively. The television division was waiting for invoices from Airoc for the period starting May this year, she said. Regarding Risa’s payments, Dlodlo said R19.8m was made in December 2016 and that the balance of R2.4m would be made between October and December later this year. She also said the Composers, Authors and Publishers Association of South Africa's payment for February-April 2017 period has been submitted, but it was dependent on availability of funds. The payment is also scheduled to be made later this year between October and 
December. The debt on royalties to musicians takes place against the backdrop of the SABC being caught up in dire financial straits. Last month, the public broadcaster submitted a funding proposal to Dlodlo after a team from the Communications Department, National Treasury and SABC’s top management developed the funding proposal. Both Dlodlo and the SABC have yet to make public the amount the public broadcaster wants to be assisted with. The proposal was prompted by reports that the SABC, which in April had R110m in reserves, recorded an operating loss of R509m at the end of March. The public broadcaster recorded losses last year due to the 90/10 local content unilaterally introduced by former chief operating officer Hlaudi Motsoeneng. The revenue losses in radio amounted to R29m and R183m on television.