Cape Town – Cape Argus columnist and Dignity Project ambassador, Danny Oosthuizen, was honoured by the Merriman Lions of the Lions Club of South Africa. He was awarded the Louis Volks Humanitarian Award for District 410A – which encompasses South Africa, Namibia and Swaziland. It's the highest honour the Lions Club can confer on non-members. The award was made more poignant by the fact that Lions Club International – the largest and most active humanitarian group in the world, with more than 1.4 million members globally – is celebrating its centenary this year. The Merriman Lions, based in Goodwood, is celebrating 52 years and nationally, the organisation celebrates 60 years of Lionism in South Africa. Oosthuizen was the keynote speaker at the annual induction ceremony, which included the induction of new members and the president of the Merriman Lions for the 2017/18 financial year, Theunis Hattingh. Oosthuizen addressed the captivated crowd of about 100 people – including past district governors and presidents, as well as representatives from other Lions clubs across the city and province. He spoke of his involvement in the Dignity Project, launched by the Cape Argus early in 2016, and how the project had impacted people's perceptions of the homeless people of Cape Town. "We just want to be recognised as human, as equals," Oosthuizen said. "When you have nothing, and people treat you as nothing, you become nothing," he said, gesturing to his head, indicating the loss of self-worth that often goes along with finding yourself on the streets. Oosthuizen's speech inspired the group, with past district governor Clive Fox – also the MC at the annual induction dinner on Saturday night – commenting that the club would continue its drive to produce sleeping bags for the homeless, a project done in conjunction with Groote Schuur Hospital. The goal is to produce 100 sleeping bags by Mandela Day on July 18. City councillor Clive Justus was also present and Fox alluded to him when he said: "While we realise there may be many within the city council who would discourage us from providing sleeping bags for the homeless, the simple fact of the matter is that there simply aren't enough beds for the men, women, children and women with young children available in our city's shelters." District governor-designate Geila Wills was also inspired by Oosthuizen's speech, breaking from her script to congratulate him on the work he had done and committing to working with him in future and on upcoming projects. Oosthuizen was also given 100 care packets to distribute to the elderly homeless people on the streets of Cape Town. Also honoured was Lion Maisie Fisher, who received the highly regarded Melvin Jones Fellowship. Lion Mark Heldsinger, who, despite suffering from a disability, had managed to collect 13 tons of food, distributing it to more than 100 people in need three times a week for the past year, was also honoured with a humanitarian award.