Cape Town - There are three new residents in the Predator Exhibit at the Two Oceans Aquarium who are not to be messed with.&nbsp; The aquarium welcomed three new ragged-tooth sharks - two females weighing 30kg and a male weighing 75kg - on Tuesday. Three more sharks are due to arrive on Friday.&nbsp;The sharks were collected off the coast of East London and were transported to Cape Town by road. Picture: Henk Kruger/ANA PicturesThe majestic creatures can grow up to three metres in length and to a weight of 290kg.&nbsp; They migrate annually along the southern African coast and are widely spread around the globe.&nbsp;The sharks were transported to Cape Town by road. Picture: Henk Kruger/ANA PicturesThe three new residents were collected near East London and were housed in 150 000l and 30 000l pools at the Pure Ocean marine fish farm in the East London Industrial Development Zone before being transported to Cape Town by road. The aquarium's communication and media executive Ren&eacute;e Leeuwner said: &quot;It was exciting to see the sharks, the team worked very hard along the coast near East London. The three sharks (two females and one male) were captured and stored in 30 000l and 150 000l pools, with daily supervision provided, they were then transported by road to the aquarium. After being collected from the ocean, the sharks were housed in 30 000l and 150 000l tanks. Picture: Henk Kruger/ANA Pictures&quot;The renovations took over a year at the aquarium, and now it is great to see the species being welcomed, it will be good for conservation and shark research. We are looking to add more fish species at a later stage, such as shoal sardines or large kob etc, but for now we want the sharks to settle in,&quot; she said. &nbsp;While the renovated exhibit s capacity remains at 2 million litres, the community housed in the tank will be different. The previous exhibit housed a comprehensive mix of species, but the new exhibit will be home to predominantly ragged-tooth sharks. The water temperature in the exhibit ranges between 18 and 21 degrees Celsius. &nbsp;Ragged-tooth sharks can grow up to 3m in length and weigh up to 290kg. Picture: Henk Kruger/ANA PicturesTwo Oceans Aquarium chief executive Michael Farquhar said: &quot;We are finally reaching the end of what has been an incredibly long journey for many of the staff at the aquarium. Although the Predator Exhibit has only taken 12 months to renovate, it was the necessity of these renovations, which prompted the construction of our new I&amp;J Ocean Exhibit that we opened in June 2016. The opening of the new exhibit gave us the opportunity to tag and release the sharks and then move the fish, previously housed in the Predator Exhibit, into their new home.&nbsp; Three more raggies are due to be introduced into the newly renovated Predator Exhibit at the Two Oceans Aquarium. Picture: Henk Kruger/ANA Pictures&quot;Once done, we were able, for the first time in 21 years, to empty the Predator Exhibit and start the renovations. To get to where we are now has taken 10 years of financial, architectural, structural, and curatorial planning with too many skilled and dedicated people involved to mention here. My heartfelt thanks and appreciation goes out to all of them.&quot;Other species of large fish are also set to be introduced but the Predator Exhibit will house mostly sharks. Picture: Henk Kruger/ANA PicturesThe exhibit is already open to the public, but remains a work in progress, as animals will be introduced over the course of a number of weeks. @LobzMarele Cape Argus