Preliminary figures indicate 300 comments have been received so far, a mixed bag which includes comments both in favour and against the statue. The Madiba statue is a collaboration between the Western Cape government and the City of Cape Town, which will contribute R3.5m and R1.3m respectively for the statue, the exhibition, as well as operational costs. The city also committed to its maintenance. Mayco member for urban development Brett Herron said: “A report about the outcome of the public-participation process will serve before the city’s naming and nomination committee in due course. The committee will consider the report and recommend a decision to the executive mayor, who will recommend a decision to Council.” He added “any decision on this matter should be supported and approved by full Council before implementation”. “The purpose of the public-participation process is to engage with our residents about the intended memorialisation of Madiba at City Hall. It is proposed that a statue be installed on the balcony at the City Hall where Madiba delivered his first public address following his release from the then Victor Verster Prison on February 11, 1990. “It is opposite this balcony where approximately 50 000 South Africans gathered on the Grand Parade on this historic day to celebrate Madiba’s release from prison after 27 years.” Economic Opportunities MEC Alan Winde had previously said the project, which would include the development of a Madiba legacy route, was expected to create up to 100 000 jobs. “The purpose of the proposed permanent exhibition is to turn City Hall into a popular tourist attraction where visitors can visualise the events and have a full experience of our journey to democracy. “Numerous people and organisations had a hand in one of our nation’s most historic moments and we want to honour them as well.” The final report, which is to serve before the naming and nomination committee, will be available to the public in due course, he said. Cape Argus