Cape Town - The&nbsp;Western Cape Government needs to sit down and engage on the new liquor regulations, according to&nbsp; the Western Cape Liquor Trader&nbsp; Organisations (WCLTO) secretary, Lefa Mapilo. On Thursday, the WCLTO supported the Cape Flats Shebeeners Association s march outside&nbsp;the Western Cape provincial legislature, saying that the problem with alcohol in the province is as a&nbsp; result of abuse by consumers. The protesters' argument was that legal alcohol business owners contribute to the economy of&nbsp;the province as they are employers in the community, and family members who need to put&nbsp; food on the table. &quot;On the 1st of July there is a liquor fleet where it is said that the DA will deploy the&nbsp;police to close down all shebeens,&quot; Mapilo said. &quot;Alcohol business owners were told that if they do not have a&nbsp; certificate of rezoning and a license to sell alcohol their businesses will be shut down. The DA is issuing rules that are impacting us, but are not involving us in their decisions. We,&nbsp;liquor business owners, have families, people that we employ . They are basically saying our businesses should close down, ignoring the fact that we&nbsp; contribute to these socio-economic matters. We assist in state money - fees for our university students, and the job loss that has impacted&nbsp;South Africa. The problem of alcohol is the abuse of alcohol. How can we work together to solve&nbsp; the abuse of alcohol? Thabo Mbeki said we should wake up and push each other. If they take people's licenses and&nbsp;business permits, they are basically promoting many people to sell illegally, which is what we do&nbsp; not want. On 15th December, we marched to parliament, to Dan Plato, he said he would get back to us&nbsp;after 14 days. He never came back to us. We are employers, whether we like it or not. In Gugulethu, when the mall was opened, many small businesses had to close down, this&nbsp;impacted on people's health and the economy of the community. They are basically helping&nbsp; foreign businesses to grow rather than helping the small businesses in the province. They&nbsp; should give people license permits so we can regulate, he said. Community Safety MEC Dan Plato's spokesperson Ewald Botha said: Minister Plato&nbsp;and the Western Cape Liquor Authority have already agreed to have a meeting with the so- called WCLTO. Regarding the regulations, it is important to emphasise that the&nbsp;amendments made are not to the Western Cape Liquor Act but to the Western Cape Liquor&nbsp; Regulations: 2011 Amendment 2017. The Western Cape Liquor Authority and the Western&nbsp; Cape liquor Act regulates the licensing of retail sale and micro-manufacturing of liquor in the&nbsp; Western Cape.&quot; Premier Helen Zille said: It also has to be emphasised that there is no specific target against&nbsp;shebeens. The regulations address all non-compliance by licensed outlets, and the WCLA&nbsp; report unlicensed outlets to the SAPS who are mandated with addressing illegal outlets. The&nbsp; new regulations are intended to make communities safer by preventing ongoing alcohol harms&nbsp; that are affecting our communities. Cape Argus