Non-profit organisation (NPO) Ilitha Labantu led a motorcade through Gugulethu’s Steve Biko Road to Nyanga Police Station to deliver petitions signed by hundreds of community members. Groups including NPO Molo Songololo and LGTBI organisation Luleki Sizwe have demanded a swift response from officials to the crimes and more visible policing. Ilitha Labantu spokesperson Siyabulela Monakali said the spike in violence against women and children called for everyone to unite. “Next week we will go to provincial leadership and hand over our memorandums because as a collective we have had enough,” said Monakali. ‘‘Throughout our campaign we will be picketing outside magistrate’s courts.” Monakali said they as civil societies and citizens are calling on the public to join them in effecting change. Founder of Luleki Sizwe, Ndumie Funda, said they were supporting the campaign as violence against sisters, mothers and daughters must end. She said the change society wanted to see would only be achieved if everyone stood together despite their differences. The SA Medical Research Council released a statement confirming that every eight hours a woman is killed by an intimate partner. Stats SA said in its South Africa Demographic and Health Survey 2016 released last month that one in five women in a relationship have experienced physical abuse committed by a partner. According to the National Prosecuting Authority, since January 20 children have been killed in the province. Twelve of these cases would go to the high court. Gugulethu resident and grandmother Vuyelo Ngoma, 59, said she joined yesterday’s march as she feared for her own children and grandchildren. “Another child was found dead in Strand and so many of these young girls are being killed by friends and neighbours. It is time for everyone to stand together and bring an end to the senseless killing of our women and young children,” said Ngoma.  For more information on the campaign visit www.ilithalabantu.org.za   dominic.adriaanse@inl.co.za 