So said Roland Roger, a homeless car guard, following Tuesday night's storm which wreaked havoc, displacing scores of people across the city and reportedly killing eight people. By yesterday the city had assisted 143 homeless people from around Cape Town. Roger was among the people rebuilding their shelters with cardboard after they were blown away. He makes a living by looking after cars parked on the Cape Peninsula University of Technology's (CPUT) Cape Town campus. “We live in the 21st century, we have to have survival skills to live. Without survival skills you are nothing. Everything we do is to survive. For me, it's a privilege living in the streets. Many do not know the skills you can learn from the streets. I have learnt a lot. I have been living here for 17 years in the streets without a mother or father. Learning from other people without parents is a whole new world,” he said. He and his friend Mvuyisi Mathetha spoke to the Cape Times yesterday about the plight homeless people faced during severe weather. They, like many others, did not have blankets. “We try hiding our stuff but it gets stolen. Sometimes you do not have enough time to pack your stuff away and you have to hide it. Sometimes we skarel (hustle) to check something for us in order to live. "The weather is going to get worse and I am planning to build myself a small shack,” he said. Mathetha, who has been living on the streets for about 27 years, said: “As you can see I just came from collecting some material to build. Last night was hectic. It was cold, gusting winds and a lot of rain. Some of us really felt it because we did not have blankets.” Sharlene Samuels has been living on the streets for six years and says Tuesday night's weather was some of the worst she had  experienced. She, however does not want to go to the shelters for the homeless. “There is no love there. I rather stay here in the streets. My shelter was blown away. I am now looking for stuff to build a stronger one," she said. Nehemiah Call Initiative, representing street people around the city, said shelters were barred from taking in more people due to the strict adherence to their capacities. The initiative's head, Dean Ramjoomia, said the city's winter readiness plan had “fallen apart”. “I know about a church in the Bellville area that has opened the doors and we hope a few more will do so. Other than that, very little will be done. Often the sick and elderly suffer the most. In areas like Sea Point our people find it much harder with the aggression towards them. It might be worth mentioning so police stations will allow a few folk to take refuge there at night,” he said. Social services mayoral committee member JP Smith said the street people unit and 17 shelters were on high alert and standby during the inclement weather conditions. “We know that winter is a difficult time for people living on the streets, especially when storms approach. Thus, as part of the city's winter readiness campaign, we have already made additional aid available to a number of organisations that assist street people. “This includes extra food, blankets, mattresses, and toiletries, among others. These organisations will be on hand to provide assistance to street people, who are encouraged to take this up." Smith said as part of the winter readiness campaign for street people, the city would  make aid worth R700000 available to 16 organisations.  siyavuya.mzantsi@inl.co.za 