Cape Town – Plans to build 30 000 houses in the eco-sensitive Philippi Horticultural Area (PHA) might end up in the courts after both the developer and the Schaapkraal Civic and Environmental Association appealed, for various reasons, for and against the development. The association objected to the seven days it was given to prepare an appeal and only 10 minutes to state its case before a city appeals committee. It’s been an ongoing battle and the association has gone through numerous appeals to stop developers from building on this land. In the latest move, the association appealed against a decision by the City of Cape Town which allowed developers to rezone it from agricultural land into a residential area. “We were not prepared for this. The fact that they gave us just seven days is problematic,” said the association’s secretary, Nazeer Sonday. Sonday added that the city didn't allow them adequate time. Oaklands City, who are the developers, plan to build approximately 30 000 homes in the area. The initial development application was made by Oaklands City back in 2008 to turn it into a residential area, but the city council voted against this. Last November, in full council, the city reportedly granted the developer permission to rezone the land. This was then appealed by the association. The association submitted a 19-page document that strongly objected to the land rezoning process. The letter stated that: “Instead of solving the housing crisis – this development is for a private school, shopping centre and middle-class houses – they will instead exacerbate one of the most prevalent causes of suffering to the citizens of Cape Town (hunger). In time with the resultant escalation of food prices, the lower-middle class will increasingly experience this. “We find that this appeal fast-tracks public participation. I have to unfortunately say that we will not survive this.” He also added that at stake are people’s livelihoods should the development go ahead. “We’re talking about jobs that are at stake and people who rely on our vegetables.” The association was told that a decision would be made in 10 days’ time. “Philippi Horticultural Area is considered the breadbasket of Cape Town; it provides 100 000 tons of fresh produce to Cape Town. “The use of the farm stretches back as far as the mid-1800s. At the moment the horticultural area supplies around 80% of Cape Town’s vegetables. However, significantly, it stands as the custodian to fresh water aquifer.” The city said Oaklands City and objector (Schaapkraal Civic and Environmental Association) have both appealed the decision taken by the city’s interim planning committee in terms of the land use planning ordinance (Act 15/1985). The objector appealed the approval of the entire application and the applicant (Oaklands City) appealed one of the conditions imposed by the city’s interim planning committee when they approved the application. “It is normal procedure used by all committees to provide each party 10 minutes to present their point of view.” The city said both parties will hear the outcome of their appeals in due course. “Both the objector and the applicant then have the right to have this decision reviewed by the Western Cape High Court should they feel the need to do so.”  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus