Communications Minister Ayanda Dlodlo is looking into taking legal action over allegations she accepted an offer from a French nuclear company to watch the French Open tennis tournament. “On the French Open, shopping sprees and all that in Paris, the person who alleges has the responsibility to provide proof," she said. "I have handed this to my lawyers. It is something that will have to take its course. “Apart from that, it has been sent to the ethics committee to deal with." She was speaking at a post-cabinet briefing after the DA’s Phumzile van Damme said her party would refer her to the joint committee on ethics for failing to disclose the expenses for a Dubai trip and a visit to the tournament. “The DA has interrogated the 2015 Register of Members’ Interests and found that Communications Minister, Ayanda Dlodlo, failed to declare her 2015 trip to Dubai, as well as her stay at the luxurious Oberoi Hotel when she was deputy minister of Public Service and Administration. “Further allegations emerged yesterday by former ANC MP, Vytjie Mentor, that Dlodlo accepted an offer from a French nuclear company for a first-class flight to watch the tennis tournament, an extended stay at a luxury hotel and a possible shopping spree in 2009,” Van Damme said, adding the expenses were not declared. Media reports earlier this week revealed Dlodlo’s stay in Dubai was arranged by Gupta-owned Sahara Computers. Businessman Fana Hlongwane paid for all her expenses. Dlodlo was quoted in the reports as having confirmed that the trip had been arranged between her and Hlongwane. Yesterday, she said she did not declare it while she was in the public service and administration portfolio. “On the other one, Dubai, that is true I did not declare the benefit of accommodation, but the accommodation did not go with all the other things that are alleged.” She said she would explain when called to appear before the ethics committee. “I would like people to judge me on my work, on the way I conduct myself. Where there is wrongdoing I will accept whatever is meted out at whatever forum that will take disciplinary action against me if such were to happen,” Dlodlo said. Van Damme has reported her to the ethics committee.