Cape Town – South African businesses, relief organisations and concerned citizens have opened their hearts and pockets to those left destitute by the province's 48 hours of icy storms in the west and 24 hours of fire in the south-east. With more than 2 900 people left destitute by the storm and 10 000 displaced by “one of the most destructive fires in recent memory” in Knysna, the City's fire stations have become the official drop-off points for any donations. Aid organisation Al-Imdaad Foundation hopes to raise R1 million within 24 hours for #CapeRelief, while Gift of the Givers and the Salvation Army were engaged in online fund-raising efforts for continued relief work in the affected areas. The Western Cape government's community development directorate: social relief was managing a campaign for donated goods. The City has asked that donations be made to the Red Cross, its humanitarian relief partner, while the Informal Settlements Department was assessing the damage and would provide flood kits. Courier firm DHL said they would road- and airfreight non-perishable food items, blankets, clothing and first-aid supplies to Knysna. Shoprite and Checkers have already sent mobile soup kitchens to feed people in the Cape Metropole area, Hout Bay and Knysna. Their stores in the south-western districts and along the Garden Route would receive donations of non-perishable food items, water and blankets as part of the #YellowPacketChallenge, and funds as part of the #ActForChange Fund. Pick n Pay has promised to gather and deliver any online purchases made on their website in aid of Knysna fire relief. Finance MEC Ivan Meyer yesterday appealed to the international diplomatic community to request donations to be sent to the disaster centres. “This is a very big crisis and disaster. Under section 25 of the Provincial Finance Management Act, we may use funds in emergency situations,” said Meyer, who is to “invoke this act to release funds". As mopping-up operations began, Big Bay Beach had to be closed as the dunes were unstable and unsafe. A City official was injured and admitted to hospital after the dune he was standing on collapsed. Uprooted trees were being removed to clear roadways, while the electricity department was working to restore electricity to areas affected by power outages. By late yesterday, at least 90% of power had been restored. * Pick n Pay will gather and deliver any online purchases made on their website in aid of Knysna Fire Relief. Click here for more info. 