Cape Town – The man who allegedly raped and brutally murdered 33-year-old Langa resident Unathi Madotyeni is due to be charged in the Bishop Lavis Magistrate's Court on Monday. Madotyeni's mutilated body was found last Monday. She was last seen alive the night before. The police confirmed a murder investigation had been opened and that a 42-year-old man had been arrested. Madotyeni's family believed she had been raped. Resident's in Langa's Zone 26 were still reeling from the loss of “bubbly and fun-loving” Madotyeni, whose mutilated body was found just 300m from her home. The 33-year-old mother of two was allegedly raped before being killed, and her eyes gouged out. Her family says they are heartbroken and filled with anger. "Though we know it is unlikely that this case will be taken seriously, we are not allowed to take the law into our own hands anymore, and the way he took her life was very brutal," said Madotyeni’s uncle Ntsikelelo Mthetho. "I would love for him to feel the same pain that he made her feel." Madotyeni, who arrived in Cape Town in February to further her studies, left her home with a friend around 6pm on Sunday. This is according to a friend, who asked to remain anonymous. She recalled the last time she saw Madotyeni, saying they had met up with friends at a local tavern where they stayed for a few hours before she told her (female friend) she wanted to leave. They proceeded to a friend’s home and a male acquaintance accompanied the pair. Shortly after, Madotyeni allegedly decided to go home and the man followed her out. Madotyeni’s family appeared upset and distraught by the incident, saying Madotyeni had two gashes to her forehead, and blood streaming out of her one of her eye sockets had dried up. When Weekend Argus visited the family, they were heading to the mortuary. Madotyeni’s cousin, Noluvuyo Booi, said those who were first to arrive at the scene had to dress the body. "When she was found her jeans were pulled down to her knees and they told us her eyes had been taken out. Who does that, what kind of an animal is this guy?" Madotyeni’s family said they would be taking her body back to the Eastern Cape for burial.  asanda.sokanyile@inl.co.za  Weekend Argus