The committee's attorney, Nicki van’t Riet, said yesterday that they would go ahead with litigation following the Department of Rural Development and Land Reform Minister Gugile Nkwinti’s failure to provide answers to their letter of demands sent more than a month ago. The District Six Working Committee’s 2 500 members are calling for justice 25 years after being forcibly removed from their homes. “We are going to aggressively go ahead with litigation in this process. According to the government, the land claims for District Six are almost finalised with only 100 claimants to finalise. But according to information we have received there are still 2 300 members outstanding,” said Van’t Riet. The situation had become “intolerable and in breach of the constitutional right to restitution”, they said. In the letter, the committee also wanted to know how many people had claimed for land restoration and by when they could take occupation and ownership. “We anticipated that the answers to the questions set out will demonstrate that a substantial number of 1998 claimants and a further substantial number of 2014 claimants, have not received financial compensation and will not receive land restoration in any of the phase one, two and three,” read the letter. They further wanted to know what steps government would  take to accelerate the process of restitution, when each step would be taken and what the concrete outcome of each step would be. “The letter of demand was sent on May 3 and, to date, we have not yet received a response. We anticipated this outcome and in the meantime have drawn up court papers which will be taken to the Land Claims Court,” said Van’t Riet. The committee had written to the department on numerous occasions requesting information about the lands claim process, but those efforts had proved futile. Van’t Riet said they will issue a declaratory order charging that Nkwinti was in breach of his constitutional and statutory obligations in respect of land restitution. “Our clients’ conduct thereafter will be governed by your response. If you do not provide the information requested or, if you do so, but the information does not demonstrate that reasonable steps will be taken to fulfil the claimants’ right to restitution, you are instructed to make an application to the Land Claims Court for a declaration that you are in breach of your constitutional and statutory obligation in respect of land restitution and for a structural interdict to oversee the finalisation of the land claim process in respect of District Six,” read the letter. The department’s spokesperson Linda Page did not respond to questions before going to print.