Cape Town – Eighty schools across the province have reported damages as a result of the devastating storms this week. Among them is a primary school in Athlone, which was so severely damaged that it was deemed unsafe to remain open. More than 600 pupils were told stay at home until further notice. On Wednesday a severe storm damaged the Sunnyside Primary School’s administration building and two classrooms. It left the teacher’s room flooded and the acting principal’s office in ruins. “I am grateful, however, to the decision makers who made sure the school will be closed,” acting principal Nathaniel Brache said. When the Cape Argus visited the school on Thursday a few teachers were informing parents the school was closed. They were not sure when it would reopen. “At this stage we cannot continue with any classes. The department will have to first come and assess the school,” Brache said. He also said that over the years some maintenance had been done around the school. “There was a lot done but mostly small odd jobs,” he said. However, teachers at the school are adamant it is in desperate need of renovations. “In the past we were affected by storms but not so severely. A few of our classrooms had leakage problems but that was fine,” Tiffany Miller said. “We are just thankful the children were not here. It’s very unsafe for them here,” another teacher, Taryn Rose, said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Western Cape Education Department officials said they were aware of the damage to the school. “Because of the safety and security risk posed by the debris, a decision was taken not to allow learners on to the school premises until the debris was removed. We are informed that this will be removed and be completed by (Friday)," Jessica Shelver, spokesperson for MEC Debbie Schäfer, said. Shelver said there were plans to erect four mobile classrooms to accommodate the pupils. “Preparations are being made to place four mobile classrooms at the school to accommodate those learners who were accommodated in the damaged classrooms as well as to accommodate the administration of the school. Public Works has informed us that the mobile units will be delivered to the school over the weekend,” Shelver said. She also added that the department was aware that the day off given to pupils as a result of the storm had disrupted learning. “The decision to close schools on Wednesday has disrupted school programmes. “We deeply appreciate the understanding of parents, principals and teachers, and their willingness to work with our officials in meeting these challenges positively,” she said.  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus