The enraged community staged a two-day protest last week saying “enough is enough”. Vusi Mandindi, a community activist, said the crime rate in Langa was shocking. “One of the factors contributing to the crime rate is a popular  tavern which operates 24 hours and we have been complaining about it for a long time now. We fear that crime is becoming a norm here; we want our streets back. People are tired of living in fear and are tired of being silent while people are dying every minute. We are asking the police to step up and protect us. “We are calling on the Police Ministry to intervene. The whole community was disturbed by the gruesome discovery. We are grieving along with the  family and we do not understand how someone can be brutally killed like that,” Mandindi said. Police spokesperson FC Van Wyk said a man, 42, was arrested last week Tuesday. He is expected to appear in the Bishop Lavis Magistrate’s Court on Monday. The body of the 33-year-old was discovered last Monday morning in Zone 26, 300m from her home. She was last seen by her family on Sunday evening leaving home with her friend. The friend told the family they went to a local tavern, then left and walked to the friend’s house accompanied by a male friend. Madotyeni decided to go home and the male followed her out. That was the last time the friend saw her. Madotyeni, originally from Lady Frere in the Eastern Cape, came to Cape Town five months ago to further her studies. She was busy with a learnership. The family believes that where the body was found is not the main crime scene but was dumped there. “Unathi was the first-born. Her father is heartbroken. It still feels like we are in a bad dream. We are finding it hard to accept that she is really gone. We are hoping he gets the harshest sentencing. This man is dangerous and should spend the rest of his life in prison. We really appreciate the support we have been receiving from our community at large and other communities,” said distraught cousin Bongiwe Mdudo. The family said the memorial service will be held on Wednesday at Isilimela Comprehensive School hall. Cape Argus