Cape Town - A project management team will be established to monitor and provide oversight for the proper implementation of projects and the economic use of approximately R80 million which the National Disaster Management Centre (NDMC) allocated to the provincial government for drought relieve. A total of  R74 866 263 has been transferred. The City of Cape Town will be receiving R20 812 483, Bitou local municipality R10 920 000 and Theewaterskloof municipality R 3 133 780. The provincial department of agriculture will be receiving R40 000 000. The Western Cape, and Cape Town in particular, is currently experiencing one of the worst droughts in a century. Dam level storage capacity in the Western Cape is at 33.3%, about 18% of it potable. The three municipalities have also been declared disaster areas by the NDMC. The Ministry of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) facilitated the funding allocation to water and agriculture sectors. Cogta Minister Des van Rooyen said the NDMC conducted damage assessments during June and July 2017 for the classification of the disaster, according to the Disaster Management Act. The disaster has been classified as a provincial disaster by the NDMC. "As part of project management and monitoring, the NDMC and the Provincial Disaster Management Centre of the Western Cape will monitor and report on progress made on the implementation of these projects. A project management team is being established by the province to monitor and provide oversight in order to ensure proper implementation of projects and the economic use of funding." Van Rooyen further said that the transfer of the funds was therefore based on the conditions stipulated in the applicable Grant Frameworks. "To ensure value for money and accountability on the utilisation of public funds. These funds were transferred to the recipients on 21 August 2017. The funds earmarked for agriculture will be transferred on 31 August 2017." The National Department of Water and Sanitation (DWS) is also monitoring the levels of 43 dams in the Western Cape. Cape Argus