Steyn was a member of the Baxter Theatre’s South African season team who travelled to the Scottish capital and performed in a number of plays. Earlier this year, she won the Fleur du Cap Award as best actress for her role as Sara in The Inconvenience of Wings. “The landscape is magnificent and I am really proud to be have been part of the team,” she said, as she and other cast members arrived at Cape Town International Airport to great applause. Each of the six productions of the season: The Fall, Lara Foot’s Tshepang: The Third Testament, Karoo Moose's No Fathers and The Inconvenience of Wings, Sylvaine Strike’s Tobacco and Yael Farber’s Mies Julie received at least one (and in some cases more) five-star reviews and standing ovations in Edinburgh. The Fall won two awards, the Fringe First at this year’s Scotsman Awards, and the Stage Acting Award for performances by the seven-strong ensemble, beating more than 200 other shows. The controversial play, inspired by events during the #FeesMustFall movement and growing student awareness, was also shortlisted for the Amnesty International Freedom of Expression Award, which celebrates excellence in an Edinburgh Festival Fringe production, with an inspiring human rights message. Ameera Conrad, co-curator of the production, said it was a first time in Edinburgh for members of the cast. “It was thrilling to meet other artists from all over the world to discuss burning issues and how we, as artists, confront them. To go overseas with our play, which was so successful on home turf, and to be so well received there, was incredible. "Dealing as it does with inherent racism and patriarchy, the show made a strong impact,” she said. Thando Mangcu, a member of the cast, said the ensemble put all their energy into the show. “I really think the Baxter came through and did so well with all its productions. And it was great to be exposed to other international shows.” The Baxter’s head of marketing, Fahiem Stellenboom, who spent three weeks in Edinburgh, described the event as the Grahamstown Arts Festival “on steroids”. “With more than 3000 productions being showcased including our own, I am really proud of our achievements,” he said. The Fall cast have dedicated their two recent awards and their performances at the festival to movements working to dismantle statues, systems and structures of oppression. The Fall is coming to the Baxter Golden Arrow Studio from September 12 to 21. Cape Argus