In a  Human Rights Violations Report,  the Step Up Project (SUP), which provides needle and syringe programmes, as well as other core HIV, health and wellness services, for people who inject drugs, claimed that illicit drug users suffer abuse at the hands of police officers and members of private security agencies. A total of 683 violations were recorded from November 2015 to November 2016, Shaun Shelly, policy, advocacy and human rights manager for TB/HIV Care Association in South Africa and a founder of the annual South Africa  Drug Policy Week (SADPW), said. Shelly released the report  as part of the SADPW programme that took place last week. The report found that over 50% of the violations reported nationally were committed by police. The violations occurred mainly in the CBD and in Bellville. Shelly said the report was released to spark dialogue and hopes to humanise those that have been violated. “The marginalisation and almost universal disregard for the rights of people who use illicit drugs goes virtually unchallenged. Indeed, violations are sanctioned, either explicitly or tacitly, by numerous national laws,” he said. Shelly added that key recommendations in the report are securing greater co-operation with SAPS command and officers to grow awareness of the purpose of needle and syringe programmes. “This report shows that it is not only law enforcement officers on the ground who are responsible. It is those who hold political power that influence the levels of abuse people suffer,” he said. “It is them we should hold accountable. It is not sufficient to remain passive. Decisive action is needed.” Police spokesperson Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo said he could not comment on the report as he was not sure how they did the research. He said usually when officers confront drug users or suspected dealers, there is always a degree of resistance. “One has to understand the use of force within the context of the law. If there is resistance the law allows them to use a degree of force, because of the nature of the work we do there will be times where members are confronted with the violence or resistance.” Naidoo added that while the law protected officers, it also protected members of the public. “What is critical is that our officers are not expected to conduct themselves outside the law and are regulated by a code of conduct and the constitution,” he said. “Any person that feels violated is welcome to open a case and doesn’t have to go to the police, but straight to Ipid.” Keabetswe Gibakoane said he had been a victim of abuse from officers and said even though he was homeless he was still a human being and wanted to be afforded his human rights. “We have a big problem with police, they beat up people on the street and to be honest, they treat us like animals and we just want to be made to feel like people,” he said. Naidoo noted that it was not all officers that were guilty. “I would like if all the police and metro police help and work with us, to protect us from victimisation,” he said.  yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  CAPE ARGUS