Cape Town - The Western Cape government has thrown its weight behind the Philippi Horticultural Area's (PHA) farming potential and the development of an integrated agri-park in the area. But, the standing committee on economic opportunities, tourism and agriculture in the provincial legislature is adamant the City of Cape Town concludes its 6 month environmental impact and feasibility study before deciding on any future developments. The provincial government wants to develop Philippi into a "dedicated, integrated, and self-sustaining agri-park to capitalise on the immense agricultural and job-creating potential of the region," standing committee chairperson Beverley Schäfer said. "We have previously called for the Philippi Horticultural Area (PHA) to be classified as an Agricultural Development Zone (ADZ) to protect the long-term farming potential of the land." The development is expected to create some 112 000 jobs and bring R8.1 billion in revenue into the local economy. "Pursuant to a presentation by the Philippi Economic Development Initiative (PEDI) at the Western Cape Provincial Parliament today, it was revealed that Philippi is earmarked to be a leading agricultural hub in the Province bringing in some R8.1 billion in revenue for the City of Cape Town, and creating 112 000 jobs in the Metro," Shäfer said. "I have written to the Executive Mayor of the City of Cape Town, Patricia De Lille, recommending that the City await the results of a 6 month long impact study into the agricultural footprint and viability of the PHA before any decisions are taken for its future development. "Philippi, along with the PHA, have the potential to house a variety of agri-processing industries, specialised agricultural academies, business incubators, and green human settlement projects where the members of the surrounding previously disadvantaged communities can be catapulted into employment in a thriving industrial zone as the bread basket of the City of Cape Town. "We know that Philippi will be developed as a regional transport hub, with 6 proposed MyCiti bus routes and a central station, as well as the development of an aerotropolis with proposed upgrades to Cape Town International Airport. Furthermore, the Western Cape Department of Transport and Public Works is also building major motorways in the area and connecting roads to nearby towns. This is key infrastructure to support an agri-park which Philippi is poised to become. "The development of this area as an agricultural hub is so vital because of its self-sustaining approach to farming, making sole use of water from the underground Cape aquifer and drawing no water from the City itself. It presents immense opportunity for upcoming farmers to compete with commercial farming in the Province, creating an enabling environment for various agricultural industries to launch and flourish.
 
"As the DA in the Western Cape, we will continue to support initiatives which have the potential to create jobs for our people and grow the food to feed them. This is part of our mandate to create an open, opportunity society for all," Shäfer said. Cape Argus