When I was at primary school, my packed lunch consisted of sandwiches in one box - often in those garish colours from the 1970s, browns, yellows and oranges - and other snacks in circular pots - cream bottoms with slightly faded primary coloured tops. Often the sandwich boxes were a little warped, but still sealed properly and kept everything inside. And at home, the chunkier tubs of those same 1970s colours were used to store leftovers from dinner. I remember thinking “why do we still have these, they’re so old?” And they were. They’re about 30 years old now and still going strong - albeit not used for my lunch. The Tupperware brand was developed in 1946 by chemist Earl Tupper, from Massachusetts. He designed the first airtight containers to hold and store goods. It was a lightweight and non-breakable plastic - two essential criteria for transporting food. Setting itself apart from its counterparts was the “burping seal” - named so for the noise it made from pushing the air out. A satisfactory sound that confirmed it was closed. It was the introduction of the Wonderlier - a rounded bottom bowl with a flat circular lid - in 1949 that propelled the brand forwards as it became a must-have item, and came with a lifetime guarantee. But Tupperware didn’t immediately find success, as at first, the products didn’t sell well in shops: People didn’t understand how to use these rather revolutionary new items and needed demonstrations. What was once its downfall became its saviour, as the birth of the Tupperware party in the 1950s quite literally sealed its popularity. One woman, Brownie Wise, was so successful with her parties, she became Tupper’s vice president and the official parties - Tupperware Parties Inc - were modelled on hers. The parties gave hosts an income and even resulted in a wide “Tupperware effect”, providing a number of women with a career opportunity in the post-war world. The phenomenon became a symbol of American suburban life, and by the 1960s the parties has spread across the UK, as well as to the rest of the world, from Argentina to Japan. But as with anything, what goes up, must come down. In 2003, Tupperware parties ceased in the UK, continuing only in America. So did shops stopping selling it. So, unless you’ve got your mum’s much-loved hand-me-downs, you’ll have to look elsewhere for trusty non-leaking pots. For me, that’s now Sistema. Instead of just a sealing lid, these use chunky clip locks in bold colours and contrasting clear plastic containers. The soup holder has changed my lunches in winter for the better, as well as a square pot with removable middle shelf that cleverly separates muesli and yoghurt without a leak. I think they’ll stand the test of time - so perhaps one day my children will wonder why I’m still using something that’s so dated. The Independent