They both began their careers in retail as packers and, later, cashiers at OK Bazaars in Malvern, Johannesburg. After spending the majority of their teenage years working the tills at OK Bazaars, they were both promoted to store manager roles - responsible for the day-to-day details of running a retail business. Determined to succeed in the world of retail on their own, and both in their early 20s, both Brian and Mike eventually resigned from their positions as OK Bazaar branch managers. This eventually led to the successful launch of the first Fruit & Veg City at Access Park in Kenilworth, Cape Town in 1993. Twenty-four years later, their maiden store is still operational and trading as Food Lover’s Market Access Park. The Food Lover’s Market Group includes subsidiaries such as Food Lover’s Market fresh produce stores which has a theatre of food feel; Food Lover’s Eatery stores; FreshStop @ Caltex convenience stores; FVC international - the largest importer and exporter of fresh produce in sub-Saharan Africa; Dried Fruit For All; Seattle Coffee Co and Market Liquors. Food Lover’s Market is the leading fresh produce retailer in southern Africa and its footprint across Africa continues to expand. The Food Lover’s Market Group is situated in 11 countries, has 128 stores worldwide, 220 FreshStop stores, 50 Market Liquor stores, 108 Seattle Coffee outlets, 16200 employees and services 2.86million customers per week. At Food Lover’s Market, we strongly believe that education shouldn’t ever be limited and it should be an ongoing process of self-enrichment and investment. Through a partnership with the Cape Peninsula University of Technology, we provide Food Lover’s Market staff with the opportunity to enrol in programmes which include, Customer Engagement, a Certificate in Retailing and a Retail Store Manager Qualification. This equips our staff with skills that enriches both their personal and professional lives. As with our staff, we recognise that Food Lover’s Market customers are more than just shoppers - they are individuals with families and busy personal and professional lives and we’re invested in seeing how we can make a positive impact on that lifestyle. We continue to promote healthy eating, active lifestyles and educational investment, by partnering with events such the Cape Argus Food Lover’s Market High School Quiz. Cape Argus