Cape Town - The boyfriend of murdered Khayelitsha woman Aviwe Jam Jam will spend at least another four weeks in prison until his next court appearance. Linda Ntula appeared in the Khayelitsha Magistrate's Court on Friday on charges of attempted murder after he allegedly attacked Jam Jam's stepfather, and malicious damage to property. Ntula and Jam Jam have a two-year-old son. She was living with him at the time of her disappearance. Her battered body was found near Vygieskraal Stadium, Athlone, on July 29. Police informed her family ten days later, on the eve of Women's Day. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said no arrests had been made in Jam Jam’s murder case and investigations continue. On Friday, Ntula made a brief appearance dressed in a plain white t-shirt and denim jeans. He appeared very calm as he stood in the dock. Members of the ANC Women’s League were among those in the gallery. The case was postponed until September 8, for further investigations. It is alleged Ntula and a group of friends attacked Jam Jam’s stepfather while he was entering the driveway of his Site C home. Her stepfather escaped the attack, but was rushed to the hospital where he was received 12 stitches in his head. Jam Jam’s stepfather, who declined to be named, said a week after the attack Ntula and a friend came back to his home and fired shots outside. The bullets chipped the wall in two places. Jam Jam’s family believe Ntula was linked to her murder. The family said it didn’t approve of their relationship after noting signs of his alleged abusive nature and his alleged criminal activities. "This man does not have a permanent job, but he drives the latest Mercedes. Where does he get all this money from? "From the time we first met him we saw that he was not the right man for her but we welcomed him because we loved Aviwe," her stepfather said. He added that the family was grateful for the support they are receiving from the community and various organisations. "I hope that this case will keep him in jail and that police investigate him as well in connection to Aviwe’s murder. He is a very dangerous man," he said. Funeral arrangement have also been made. Jam Jam will be buried in Dimbaza in the Eastern Cape at her biological father’s family homestead this weekend. The family will take her body to the site on Friday. A memorial service will also be held for her at Ntlanganiso High School in Site C, not far from her home, at 6pm on Wednesday.  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus