Cape Town - At one point, the Cape Argus Food Lover's Market High Schools Quiz could have easily been mistaken for the Hunger Games, given the ruthlessness of the teams competing for the title of quiz champions. The young competitors were not scared to voice questions about answers from another team that they felt were insufficient, and seeking clarification about questions in the competition. They weren't even shy to question the adjudicators. They were fierce, ready to fight, and it all made for an exciting conclusion of the High Schools Quiz. The semi-finals and final of the Cape Argus Food Lover's Market High Schools Quiz, in its ninth year, was hosted at Oaklands High School in their packed hall. Supporters, local ward councillors, teachers, fellow pupils, family members and members of the public all came out in support of the Top 8 competitors. The final was a nail-biting affair South Peninsula, Heathfield High and Maitland High battling it out for top honours. There could be only one winner, however, and it was Maitland High's team B who caused an upset and walked away as this year's Cape Argus Food Lover's Market High Schools Quiz winners.    They walked away with R35 000 for their school, and R3 000 for each of the four team members. "It's so amazing as we've been waiting for this for three years," said Maitland High's Moses Ishimwe, from the winning team said. "We're so happy, and looking forward to the bragging rights and money." Heathfield High School's team A came in second, winning R25 000 for the school and R2 000 for each member. Last year's champions and High Schools Quiz veterans South Peninsula High, boasting two teams in the final, came in 3rd and 4th. South Peninsula team A and team C collectively earned their school got R35 000 for school, while members of both teams each got R1 800. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. "I've been fascinated with the intelligence on display," said Cape Argus editor Aziz Hartley. "These are the presidents, our ministers, the intellectuals of tomorrow, and we must salute them. "It's been an honour for us to host this event again, and we appeal to you to please encourage your children to read. Reading opens the mind, and it helps them to help us contribute to a better society." Coastal Director of Food Lovers Market, Niresh Mangaru said that it was a delight to witness the talent on display. "Being our fourth consecutive year as a partner to the competition, we've had the honour of once again witnessing what a hopeful future our country has in these learners," he said. "It is nothing short of inspiring seeing these enthusiastic young people challenge each other, week after week in such a value-adding way. "At Food Lovers Market, we strongly believe that education shouldn't ever be limited."  theolin.tembo@inl.co.za  Cape Argus