Cape Town - A protest in Kleinmond left the R44 closed to traffic on Tuesday morning as a blockade of burning tyres and other debris was set up by residents in Overhill, an informal settlement along the Western Cape's southern coast. The protest was sparked following a specific cleaning tender, which a member in the community had applied for, but was instead awarded to a contractor in Hermanus. A community leader, Ayanda Tyulu, said they were fed up with tenders going to people outside of the community. Kleinmond has a higher unemployment rate than the national average. “They must look at the letter sent to them,” he said.    “We want someone from Kleinmond and not someone from Hermanus. That makes the community angry as they don’t consider us. “We look like we are stupid and we can’t tender, which is what makes the people angry.” Tyulu has said the community has given the minicipality until next week Tuesday to address their letter over the concerns about tenders. He said that they were willing to take to the streets again next week if the matter isn’t dealt with.    The community also raised questions about houses, and a lack of burial space as they have to bury their loved ones outside of the area they live in. “The municipality are not considering us, and it looks they are dictating to us and we are not guiding them,” he added. Kleinmond area manager, Desmond Lakey, acknowledged the cause of the protest was due to the cleaning tender, but could not withdraw the tender as it was already awarded to a supplier in Hermanus. “There was a person from the area who submitted a tender, and the community wants the tender to be reversed and handed to a person in Overhill,” Lakey said. “The tender has been awarded in terms of procurement rules and regulations, we can’t be compelled by a community to have a tender be awarded to specific person. “It is an open and fair process so their request is inappropriate and we can't live up to it,” Lakey said.  theolin.tembo@inl.co.za  Cape Argus