Cape Town - The third edition of the 2017 Western Province Athletics (WPA) Street Athletics series, heads to Gleemore Park, Athlone on Wednesday. For the third leg of the Series, another new club is introduced to the Street Athletics concept as Top Form Athletics Club plays host to the street athletics at Gleemore Park. The first two events in the series (Eerste River on the July 26 and Nantes on the August 2) had some of WPA’s top track & field, cross country and road running athletes assisting in identifying undiscovered talent within Western Cape communities. WPA Street Athletics, which is supported by the Two Oceans Marathon NPC, is a series of community focused events, where all youngsters are invited to participate and compete against each other, over short and medium distances. General manager of the Two Oceans Marathon NPC Carol Vosloo commented: “We are proud to partner with Western Province Athletics and support the WPA Street Athletics series. “Athletics development at grassroots level is a vital component of the long-term sustainability of the sport. While exposing these youngsters to friendly competition identifies the stars of tomorrow, the Street Athletics series also plays an important role in developing sportsmanship, team spirit and the soft skills that will stand them in good stead in the future.” The ultimate aim of the programme is that all children, from all areas, feel welcome to actively participate as the events take athletics to communities and the people. The programme provides the opportunity to broaden their existing prospects within sport and other non-sports related areas. WPA head of development Michael Schouw added: “We need to promote athletics in the communities, and the concept of Street Athletics is to raise awareness that Athletics is well and truly alive.” Events are split into four age group categories (Under-17’s, Under-15’s, Under-13’s & Under-10’s) for boys and girls. The events will be hosted in the afternoon, for 2 hours, after school, to provide and enhance opportunities for communities to participate in athletic activities. The plan is to initiate the process of identifying talent within communities in the hope that WPA supports, encourages, develops and optimises the talent within the Western Province. African News Agency