Cape Town - The Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs has released a R20.8 million cash injection towards the City of Cape Town's emergency disaster relief in the wake of the worst drought to hit the region in decades. The department's National Disaster Management Centre informed the City that the money would be made available. "We are extremely grateful to the Department for this contribution and thank them for coming on board to assist us with this very important task to supplement our water supplies," Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille said. "In a letter sent to the City from the National Department, it stated that the purpose of the funds is solely to provide emergency relief for drilling of boreholes and the installation of pumps and pipelines due to drought conditions. "In March, I declared Cape Town a local disaster area to prepare for all eventualities and invoke emergency procurement procedures required to expedite the emergency. "The incoming grant from the disaster management centre will go a long way towards the implementation of the programmes that are in place as part our Water Resilience Strategy. "The City plans to utilise the funds for responding to the immediate needs of the drought disaster that has occurred and to alleviate the immediate consequences. "We welcome this news from the National Department and will ensure that the funding, once received, is used to provide emergency relief in line with the conditions of the grant. "Last week, together with the City’s Chief Resilience Officer, we unveiled the City’s clear plans to augment the system by up to 500 million litres of water a day over the coming months using groundwater extraction, desalination, and water reuse.
 
"The projects will cost the City approximately R2 billion in capital funding and R1.3 billion in operating costs. In July, the City has raised R1 billion in our Green Bond and we will also be drawing from this source to fund our water augmentation projects. "A number of tenders will be advertised in the coming weeks to bring a range schemes online which will ensure water supply and avoid acute water shortages. "The City’s Water Resilience Plan has been developed based on the New Normal scenario where we no longer bank only on rain water for our drinking water supplies, but look at a range of technologies to augment our supply of drinking water in order to build greater water security," De Lille said. As at August 23, the City's supply dams were at 18% of usable water. Cape Argus