“All CPUT campuses are open and operational. Issues around student residence placements was resolved in a meeting yesterday (on Tuesday) and the majority of the students brought to management’s attention have been granted residence placements," university spokesperson Lauren Kansley said. “Security across all campuses has also been increased and strict access-control measures are in place across buildings.” On Monday night a meeting was held with residence staff and student leaders. It ended on a positive note, with student leaders providing a list of students still waiting for accommodation. "After hours of working through this list in an attempt to resolve the housing issue, we are pleased to announce that the deliberations ended with the majority of students on the list being placed in residences," acting vice-chancellor Dr Chris Nhlapo said. "The matter was ultimately resolved with an assurance from student leaders that no further disruptions will take place across campuses." Student representative council secretary-general Mbaliyezwe Madikizela said she was impressed with the outcome of the meeting with the university. “I must state that the SRC was against this strike. The strike was fuelled by very few students who don’t meet the requirements to be placed in residence, mainly because their addresses are local or they were kicked out of residences for misconduct or had failed dismally in 2016 and had been rejected after appealing,” Madikizela said. On Friday a survey was conducted by the central student representative council (CSRC). It was established to find out whether the students wanted to resume classes and examinations. The survey determined that the majority of the students wanted to return to class. “I am glad to see students back in university studying and writing mid-semester assessments. The issue is across all five campuses. The CSRC is working tirelessly to seek private accommodation and negotiate with NSFAS to pay for private accommodation for students who need accommodation,” she added. But some student movements were not happy with the outcome of the meeting. Among them was former Pan Africanist Student Movement of Azania chairperson, Xolisile Booi. Cape Argus