The peaceful march was prompted by the high rate of crime and gangsterism that has flared up in the area. The residents marched from Freedom Square terminus to the graveyard of Octavia Johanessen, 16, where they placed flowers, and down to the police station. “Hanover Park was a lovely area to live in where everyone felt safe. Most of the shootings happen in the morning when children have to go to school and we have to go to work. It is also nerve-wracking to even go to a nearby shop, as we do not know in which direction a bullet will come from,” said 50-year-old resident Ingrid Lewis. Community leader and chairperson of Hanover Park Civic Association Igshaan Nazier said: “Gang violence continues to cripple our area. About 11 people have died within two weeks.  We are demanding that Dan Plato tells us about his safety plans for the area. “People sit there (police station) the whole day unattended. Even if it is an urgent cases of missing children, it is not dealt with the urgency that it deserves and no response even if you are in dire need. Some CPFS have criminal records and some have been convicted in the court, but are allowed to serve.” In the memorandum, the community is calling for all staff to be removed from their posts immediately to ensure better services, legal reasons in writing why SAPS allow members of the CPF to serve without screening when it is public knowledge that some of them have criminal records and involved in the security industry to name a few. The memorandum was received and signed by Philippi station commander Cornell Abels, who was given seven days to respond. The City of Cape Town said efforts are being made to ensure the safety of residents in areas such as Hanover Park and Manenberg amid reports of escalating gang violence. Mayor Patricia de Lille said many residents live in fear because of the violence and it is unacceptable. “Johanessen was shot dead in Hanover Park last week, allegedly by gangsters. It's alleged her boyfriend was a member of the Americans gang and this may have caused Johanessen’s death.The city is working with the police to address the issue of gangs.”  okuhle.hlati@inl.co.za  Cape Argus