Heart FM, known as Cape Town’s Beat, is the official radio partner for the Cape Argus Food Lover’s Market High Schools Quiz and Careers Expo and will be broadcasting live from the quiz and careers expo, which attracts pupils and parents from all over Cape Town. “We are extremely excited to be partnering with Independent Newspapers for the third consecutive year on a number of events,” said Heart FM managing director Renee Redelinghuys. “This partnership with the Cape Argus Food Lover’s Market High Schools Quiz is a new one. Partnerships should be mutually beneficial with both sides gaining from the relationship and I believe this is why the partnership with Independent works so well,” she said. Another media partner, Cape Town TV, has put its weight behind the quiz and careers expo. The free-to-air local broadcaster will promote the quiz on the popular youth edutainment show, Ek Sê. The show celebrates young people who are excelling academically and provides them with a platform to engage with one another. “The finalists will make guest appearances on the show leading up to the finals, when they will give tips on entering and prepping for the quiz,” said Cape Town TV marketing and sales director Erinn Williams. Martin Jansen, Cape Town TV’s chairman of the board, said they were excited about the new partnership with Independent Media and the Cape Argus Food Lover’s Market High School’s Quiz competition. Jansen said broadcasting the finals would give more people the opportunity to watch the educational and entertaining event. This year, each member of the winning team will, in addition to their prize money, receive a free online bursary from Cornerstone Institute.  A R150 000 bursary will also be awarded to one of the schools in the top 16 for allocation to a deserving student. “As a sponsor of the Cape Argus Food Lover’s Market High Schools Quiz, we share a common vision to promote teaching and learning that is about advancing human dignity and social justice,” said Cornerstone chief executive officer Noel Daniels. “We are proud to be working alongside others to create greater access to higher education and believe the quiz provides an opportunity to alert young people about the opportunities that are available for them at Cornerstone Institute.” Cape Argus editor Aziz Hartley said: “It pleases us immensely to have 
sponsors and partnerships for our flagship event. The Cape Argus Food Lover’s Market High Schools Quiz does what we as a newspaper subscribe to - it presents a platform for our future leaders to show their talent and create an opportunity for them to carve out better futures. “The Cape Argus is about forming partnerships with other companies and institutions with a view to making a meaningful contribution towards a better society.” A careers expo will precede the quiz finals on Saturday at Oaklands High School in Lansdowne. In addition to exhibitions by several tertiary institutions, Cornerstone Institute will be providing free careers counselling to pupils. The expo runs from 9am to 1pm, followed by the quiz finals at 2pm. Cape Argus