Cape Town - Shoe City has been forced to apologise to the Muslim community after the name "Muhammad" appeared on the sole of a shoe and its corresponding box. The image of the shoe name was circulated on social media and eventually caught the attention of the Muslim Judicial Council (MJC). "A post making the rounds via social media about a shoe that displayed a price tag with the name Muhammad on its sole and outside of the shoe’s box reached the Muslim Judicial Council (SA) over the weekend," the MJC said in a statement. Shoe City managing director Johan Wasserval met with MJC president Shaykh Irafaan Abrahams, the MJC’s Executive
Council and Mufti Taha Karaan. "Mr Wasserval was given fair opportunity to present his case and gave a detailed explanation of how the improper use of the name of our most Beloved Prophet, Muḥammad (Peace Be Upon Him) came to be. "The situation arose after Shoe City (a member of the Pepkor Group) implemented a Style Reference Name for shoes instead of a Stock Keeping Unit (SKU) number. The list of names was provided by their IT specialists who Googled the most popular men’s names. "Mr Wasserval tendered his sincerest apology for their ignorance on when the name Muḥammad can be used and when not. "The MJC (SA) accepted Mr Wasserval’s apology and was assured that all shoes carrying this price tag will be recalled and a small committee be established to investigate the list of names being used in future labeling opportunities," the MJC said. The shoes drew outrage from some members of the Muslim community.   Outraged by #ShoeCity placing #Muhammad on a brand of Shoes! 😡 pic.twitter.com/JMntsy5Pv8  — Shaykh Faheem (@ShaykhFaheem1) July 30, 2017     Shoe City Apologises to Muslims for 'Muhammad' Shoe @FaizelPatel143 #ShoeCity #Muslims https://t.co/tIF1liqTro pic.twitter.com/bKBqceZVsn  — Radio Islam (@radioislam) August 1, 2017   Shoe City tended an apology to the Muslim community, posting it on its Facebook page. "We, therefore, consider this matter closed," the MJC said. "We would like to express our sincere appreciation to the Muslim
community, who despite feeling deeply hurt and insulted, dealt with the issue in a calm and respectful manner." Cape Argus