The Young Entrepreneur Skills (YES) project is a 20-week programme, which is fully funded and provides intensive training at the New Apostolic Church in Connaught. Bailey owned a stationery shop for four years and was a supplier to schools and businesses, but after his business began to crumble, he didn't know what to do next. "One of my friends told me about the classes that will be happening here and it motivated me to go and see what it was all about," Bailey said. After he attended the first class, he felt very motivated. "Prospects and things I didn't know (about), and having a business plan. This is a new journey for me." Michelle Alexander also decided to take part in the programme. "My life changed tremendously. I came from a huge company, and after a few years of working for them, I was retrenched. I was an administration manager, and this class motivated me to start something on my own," she said. Alexander now owns her own interior decorating business. Since its inception earlier this year, the project successfully trained 32 entrepreneurs in Elsies River. The project works in collaboration with service providers ESISA and CHASSE. The project was started by three entrepreneurs: Rita Williams, Raymond Africa and Alvin Witten. "Basically what we wanted was to invest in the development of young people from disadvantaged areas. We piloted with 20 small businesses in the area. The programme was facilitated by volunteers. The New Apostolic Church in Connaught kindly offered their facilities for this purpose at no cost," co-ordinator Witten said. He added this was about uplifting the community. "It's phenomenal seeing so many people take control of their lives and really make a difference." The group of 32 entrepreneurs who completed the course will be establishing a business forum among themselves. The next programme will start in September. Applications can be made to Williams at ritacwilliams153@gmail.com. Preference will be given to applicants residing in Elsies River, and places are limited.  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus