In the latest incident, two police officers were attacked while escorting an ambulance in Gugulethu. Richard Mamabolo, spokesperson for Popcru (the Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union), said the criminals were among the community and members needed to work with police to point them out, and to reduce incidents of police being shot while on duty. “On a year to year basis, we have had a number of officers killed. We feel there has not been any form of decrease; they are always vulnerable.” Mamabolo said one of the biggest problems was the problem of broken management structures. “That has been a problem since the new minister came in and we are looking at addressing it. The acting positions in management are of high concern because acting people cannot make decisions on permanent concerns. We need to develop long-term programmes to deal with that and part of (that) is to create real working relationships with communities.” He said the reason that ambulances were escorted was they were scared of being hijacked -  as did police and this affected how they worked. “It affects them because they wake up not knowing if they are coming back home. The levels of post-traumatic stress have gone up and that is something we tend to overlook.” Police spokesperson Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana said the officers had been approached by five suspects who demanded their firearms. “A 34-year-old police official was shot and wounded. He was transported to hospital. A suspect in his thirties was fatally wounded during the incident.” Rwexana said cases of attempted murder, illegal possession of firearms and an inquest docket had been opened. The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) was investigating the death of the suspect. Ipid spokesperson Moses Dlamini said it was an unacceptable attack on members of the force. “Members of the public should not attack the police, instead, they should support them because they serve a good purpose of deterring crime in communities.” He said they would investigate the matter but added:  “There is no indication that they, police officers, acted beyond the bounds of the law.” Western Cape police commissioner Khombinkosi Jula condemned the attack and said the injured officer was being treated in hospital. “The suspects who want to rob members, and want to derail service delivery to our communities, are going to find that we are ready for them and will not allow them to do as they will and make us lose focus.” Jula said the incident would not deter them from doing their work or escorting ambulances. EMS spokesperson Robert Daniels said the members involved in the incident had been attacked before, in similar circumstances. CAPE ARGUS