The Workers International Vanguard Party (WIVL) said while the company has an annual award for women, recent events “raise a serious question mark over this”. The organisation’s Shaheed Mahomed said seven female staffers were arrested and publicly humiliated for allegedly stealing. “Most of the cashiers at Shoprite are women. They earn about R2400 a month or R20 an hour - less than a farmworker. To make ends meet, the workers often work overtime, 12-hour shifts,” said Mahomed. He said seven workers were already dismissed and another had her hearing on Monday and will find out her fate Wednesday. “Why is Shoprite acting like this? Is this a retrenchment exercise in disguise? The controller at the store gave the workers permission to collect tips but now she is denying that. Workers have been collecting tips for years. “The community are considering launching a boycott of Shoprite nationally and internationally.” On Monday, SAHRC commissioner Chris Nissen visited the branch, as the hearing took place. Renee Lewis, researcher and adviser to Nissen, said they found it shocking that there was no representation for the staffer at the hearing. “Chris said he would see what he could do. We were there to show support and get feedback from workers. We are now waiting for  an outcome of the hearing. “They are doing anything to belittle them further. “They were all dismissed and they are still waiting for their money They could have done it better, even some of the conditions they work under.” The SAHRC has received a formal complaint and an investigation is under way. One of the staffers, Shameez Towell, said she could not believe how they were being treated. “We have families to support, but the manager doesn’t care about that. “It’s not fair, we gave everything to Shoprite and now they treat us like this.” Shoprite said they had not received any correspondence from the commission about the investigation. “Shoprite can confirm that a number of employees from its Pelican Park store have been charged with theft and have had their first court appearances. The law must now take its course. “Shoprite is a unionised employer and has established channels through which staff can raise grievances to be investigated accordingly. Further comment would be that in line with global retail practice, Shoprite cashiers are not allowed to receive tips.” Cape Argus