“Attacks on firefighters are becoming far too commonplace and it’s disgusting. If people aren’t stoning the fire engines, they threaten or harass the firefighters trying to get to the front line or even cut their hoses. “It’s unbelievable. The very people the firefighters are trying to protect are causing delays, effectively resulting in a much higher cost both to the affected community and the City,” said Mayco member for Safety, Security and Social Services JP Smith. Smith added residents need to realise that they are not the enemy and such behaviour could rob communities of a potential lifesaving service. Fire and Rescue Service spokesperson Theo Layne said one incident is one too many. “As firefighters we cannot perform our function efficiently if we have to continually watch our backs while extinguishing a fire. We do not expect to be attacked while rendering such a vital service to the community. That is why we do not ask to be escorted and do not understand why it happens in the first place.” Layne said a team of firefighters briefly withdrew from an assignment at an informal settlement in Rylands on the Cape Flats on Wednesday after residents turned on them. “Firefighters were also prevented from doing their job in Joe Slovo, near Milnerton and Imizamo Yethu in Hout Bay. The communities should be assisting firefighters to quickly extinguish fires and see that we are there to help.” However, at Pooke se Bos, Rylands community leader Mieta Hofstander said the opposite. “We love and respect those men. We would never do that. Yes there was a small fight among the people who lost everything,   but we handled it. We were the victims as we lost one of our own in the fire.” Hout Bay community leader Hadebe said: “We have very small streets and their trucks cannot move in between houses so people panic and want to take matters into their own hands. They cut the hoses the firefighters are using to try to connect it to another tap and it’s all the frustration and stress of losing everything.” Joe Slovo community leader Zoleka Nodalana said: “People wait for fire engines that are just five minutes away from the area for hours so they attack the firefighters as they do not understand why they took so long and see them as useless.” But Layne disagreed: “Residents usually think we take too long to respond, and in some instances we do not know why they become so hostile towards the firefighters, but they do.”  okuhle.hlati@inl.co.za  Cape Argus