They were the first of 584 families who will eventually receive homes in the Delft Precinct 3A development. For Nonikile Zazeka, 87, who lived in Thabo Mbeki informal settlement in Philippi, and is the oldest beneficiary, it meant one less problem for her. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. "I don’t know what to say, I am so emotional. I did not only get a house but furniture. I have been waiting and praying for this day for years. When it rains my house would be flooded and I was always sick. I will be sleeping peacefully in my new house." Thamsanqa Komani ,73, said: "I am a homeowner. I have a house that I can proudly call my mine. Before I came here, I was staying in Joe Slovo informal settlement in Langa for more than 20 years and living in a old shack." Human Settlements MEC Bonginkosi Madikizela said he was excited to see how the houses gave them hope again. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. "Their dignity has been restored and as government we must continue to identify our elders and assist them. We  know that we will never be able to give a house to every one who needs it but our responsibility as government and leaders is to identify the most vulnerable in our societies and prioritise people like the elderly and disabled. These are the people that deserves our attention most . "As the government, we must create an environment so they assist themselves. Many young people live in government houses while people in their eighties have never been assisted. This means we are not doing what we are supposed to do. This is a serious issue for me."  okuhle.hlati@inl.co.za  Cape Argus