Cape Town - The City Of Cape Town’s Metal Theft Unit commonly known as “Copperheads” has confiscated more than two tons of stolen overhead copper cabling since July. The success of the operation comes as the unit prepares to further strengthen its enforcement. The unit was first established in 2007 to help address the increase in cable and metal theft at City facilities. Its capabilities received a boost after local law enforcement were granted the powers to enforce the Second-Hand Goods Act, previously only allowed to be enforced by SAPS. This means the Copperheads are now able to execute search warrants on properties, conduct search and seizure operations and close premises where illicit second-hand goods are being traded in contravention of the Act. Members of the unit last week finalised training in the enforcement of the Second-Hand Goods Act.
 
"Cable theft continues to be a challenge and often the same suspects are arrested time and again," mayoral committee member for safety and security; and social services JP Smith said. "Section 18 of the Criminal Matters Amendment Act of 2015 has given us some hope, because it allows for sentences of up to 30 years for people convicted of tampering with or damaging essential infrastructure. The additional powers under the Second-Hand Goods Amendment Act will now also allow our staff to act more decisively against scrap dealers." The additional powers will aid law enforcement officials to "create safer communities which are key priorities in the City’s Organisational Development and Transformation Plan". In the first half of the year, the Copperheads conducted more than 780 inspections of scrap yards and bucket shops and made 33 arrests. They also confiscated 139kg of brass, 21kg of heavy steel and 172m of copper streetlight cable. The unit also picked up hotspots for metal theft and illegal traders which include areas such as Bonteheuwel, Khayelitsha, Mitchells Plain, Ocean View, Muizenberg and Kraaifontein. "Metal theft is big business for some and a means for a quick fix for others. Either way, the City and others like Metrorail and Eskom are constantly targeted, often resulting in great inconvenience to communities and commuters. We’ve already started using alternative materials where possible to deter theft of City infrastructure, but we’re still counting the cost," Smith said.
 
The Metals Theft Unit can be contacted on 0800 222 771. marvin.charles@inl.co.za Cape Argus