Cape Town - Civil society will be taking to the streets on Monday, a day before the vote of no confidence in President Jacob Zuma is set to take place in Parliament, in a bid to show their displeasure at his presidency, the corruption taking hold of South Africa, and their commitment to a united South Africa. The #UniteBehind coalition, which has brought together more than 20 community, activist and faith-based movements over the past few months has organised a march from Keizersgracht (CPUT parking) to Parliament at 3pm on Monday, August 7. "This is the day before the crucial vote of no-confidence in President Zuma is due to be held in Parliament," the movement said in a statement. "The march will call on the ANC to recall President Zuma and for all MPs to vote according to their constitutional obligations."    Mcebisi Jonas, ousted as Deputy Minister of Finance after refusing a R600m bribe from the Guptas will address the march. Other speakers include Anglican Archbishop Thabo Makgoba and Methodist Presiding Bishop Zipho Siwa.    "Youth, women, pensioners, LGBTI activists, nurses, teachers, workers and unemployed people will speak and march to demand an end to the theft and impunity taking place. "#UniteBehind coalition affiliates struggle daily for a just and equal South Africa. As a first step, we must compel the ANC to recall President Zuma. Furthermore, the nuclear deal must be scrapped, and we must root out corruption in government and business. The corruption of the historically privileged must be also be prosecuted. In our democracy, however, this cannot happen without an open and accountable government. "The #UniteBehind coalition, born out of the Cape Town memorial for Ahmed Kathrada, regards ending the Zuma Presidency as necessary, but not sufficient to address the injustice of racism, patriarchy, inequality, and corporate lawlessness. Land, education, healthcare, housing, safety and security, child-care facilities, water, sanitation, access to justice, and a living wage among others, must all be equally distributed and justly organised.    "This is a society whereby the people begin to share in the country's wealth. This is our struggle now and after Zuma goes."  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus