The police and law enforcement agencies in Cape Town will be out in full force this week before the planned marches to 
Parliament today and tomorrow. “An operational plan was developed under the guidance of the provincial joint operational and intelligence structure in anticipation of the people descending on the city centre on both days,” SAPS provincial spokesperson Novela Potelwa said. Business owners were advised by the police to exercise caution on both days of planned protest. “March organisers and participants are urged to conduct themselves within the parameters of the law.” Potelwa said. Zuma is expected back in Parliament tomorrow where he will face the motion of no confidence against him. The motion comes after Zuma’s unpopular cabinet reshuffle in March. In the reshuffle Zuma made 20 changes to his cabinet and also axed five ministers and three deputies. Since then there has been an outcry of disapproval from civil society organisations and some members of ANC. At least three major marches are planned this week along with political parties and pro-Zuma supporters. Today civil movement #UniteBehind is set to take to the streets to show their displeasure at Zuma’s presidency.  Activists, faith bodies, and over 20 000 people are expected to attend today’s march. #UniteBehind march is a day before the president’s motion of no confidence debate in Parliament. #UniteBehind decided not to march along with the other civil societies as a way to educate their members in a non-partisan manner about state capture. #UniteBehind will be joined by #SA1st Forum today  and the two will be taking to the streets. “The # SA1st Forum is aware that there will be a series of marches and activities against ‘state capture’ in support of calls to remove Zuma during this week. The marches to Parliament being led by civil society and religious groupings today and the march being led by political parties on August 8 are probably the most high profile,” Rod Solomons said. He also said that #SA1st will be providing ANC MPs who are sceptical of voting in support of the motion of no confidence with legal support on a pro bono basis. The ANC Youth League in the Dullah Omar Region will also march, but in  support of Zuma.  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  CAPE ARGUS 