Since then it has remained true to its roots of providing higher education to students who play a useful role in transforming our society, who contribute to economic prosperity and personal growth. The institution goes some way towards reversing the legacy of segregated education that denied the theology students their right to education and service to their community. Cornerstone Institute remains conscious of its birth in strife and crafted a vision of higher education that is of service to others and which is grounded in human dignity and justice. This grounding is established by a unique set of foundational courses covering communication, history and society, economics, leadership, world views and philosophy and ethics that all students study. These courses ensure that our students are agents of human rights and justice in their own communities, workplaces and institution. Cornerstone Institute is grounded in higher education that is rooted in the values of excellence, integrity, unity, respect and creativity. Cornerstone Institute is for students who want more than just a qualification that secures them a job. It attracts students who want to leave a lasting legacy, those who genuinely want to make a difference to the lives of others and those who make it their unwavering mission to transform the plight of the majority of people. At its core the institution firmly believes that education is key to supporting a culture of human rights and development that is transformational in nature. One that has a purpose. We would like to think that Cornerstone Institute produces much needed servant leaders who support their communities and remain active citizens through their lives. We like to keep our classes small and personalised, with active engagement with fellow students and academics alike. There are fewer than 500 students registered on campus and students have the choice of attending lectures on campus or registering for degrees, certificates or short courses online. Cornerstone Institute offers a bouquet of higher certificates and undergraduate and post-graduate degree programmes covering various fields of study. “Cornerstone Institute has offered the winning school (in the High Schools quiz) a full three-years scholarship to be awarded to a pupil of their choice valued at R150 000. The winning team will be awarded a short course that can be transferred to anybody the pupils chooses,” said Noel Daniels, the chief executive of Cornerstone Institute. Cape Argus