JOHANNESBURG – Proteas fast bowler Kagiso Rabada questioned the decision of Cricket South Africa to not renew the contract of former coach Russell Domingo, after Ottis Gibson was officially appointed to the position on Wednesday. Rabada, 22, was asked if a change was needed following a poor run of results in England where South Africa lost a four-match Test series 3-1, which followed their exit in the group stages in the ICC Champions Trophy. “The right time? I’m not sure if it was needed. Because I think we were doing well anyway,” said Rabada. The Proteas spearhead went as far as to suggest the team would have to start again ahead of the new season. “We haven’t done well in these last two months, but it happens in cricket. I don’t think we were in a slump. We’ve had a great season. Right now, it’s just a new beginning. “I actually haven’t seen him (Gibson) play and haven’t worked with him either. I hear he’s nice to work with, and he was a good bowler.” Read here: Ottis Gibson appointed as Proteas coach  The West Indian Gibson had been all but confirmed by Proteas captain Faf du Plessis recently, but CSA took the opportunity to officially confirm the appointment on Wednesday. Domingo steps down from his position as his contract is up, and he will now take up duties as the SA A coach. CSA CEO Haroon Lorgat confirmed Gibson as the new coach at the Wanderers. “I thank Russell Domingo, he had a good run. By far, the majority of our results were satisfactory. Unfortunately our results against England were not what we wanted. Also at the Champions Trophy, it was not the result we had expected,” said Lorgat. Gibson’s contract will run from mid-September, when he starts preparing the squad for the home series against Bangladesh, until the conclusion of the ICC World Cup in mid-2019. CSA also announced the appointment of Domingo as head coach of the South Africa A side, while the current incumbent, Shukri Conrad, will return to his previous full-time position as head coach of the National Academy. Gibson is currently the bowling coach of the England Test team and has previously served as head coach of the West Indies. As a player, Gibson, 48, featured for the West Indies in two Test matches – the second of which was the New Year Test at Newlands in 1999 – and 15 ODIs as an all-rounder between 1995 and 1999. In addition, he played more than 400 matches, principally for his native Barbados, across the three formats that included spells with Border, Gauteng and Northern Cape (Griqualand West) as well as several English counties. African News Agency (ANA)  Like IOL Sport on Facebook 