Westeros - It is often said, when you play the Game of Thrones, you win or you die. Author George R. R. Martin is known for killing off characters, and is not shy to rid the narrative of even the most popular ones. Chances are if you're a fan favourite, you're likely to get the chop. Before Season 7 started, we compiled a list of characters who we thought would die this season, and now that Season 7 has come to an end, we look at how right (or wrong) our predictions were. SEE: #GOTforDummies: 7 characters likely to die in Season 7 7. Yara Greyjoy STATUS: ALIVE, BUT CAPTURED The Greyjoys have been through a number of tragic scenes, and somewhat nonsensical events in the past seasons. We've witnessed Theon betray the Starks, falling victim to Ramsay Bolton’s vicious traps; where his manhood was cut off and eaten in front of him, and lastly his father naming his sister, Yara, as the ruler of the Iron Islands. Then came his uncle, Euron Greyjoy, who killed Theon’s father. This season saw Euron take on his niece and nephew during an intense battle at sea, and Euron won. He captured Yara, and when Theon had to make a choice to take on his uncle to save his sister or save himself - he chose himself. However while it was a selfish move, his PTSD was triggered during the battle, and he reacted as if he was Reek. However, during the season finale he found his courage and will set out on a journey to the Iron Islands to rescue his captured sister. VERDICT: WRONG 6. Greyworm STATUS: ALIVE While we initially thought the veteran’s time in the series may soon come to an end, he has survived to make it to Season 8. The mother of dragons, Daenerys Targaryen will no doubt lose many of her trusted advisers in her quest to rule the Seven Kingdoms, and while we did have a moment of worry when Greyworm was deployed to take control of Casterly Rock, he managed to succeed unscathed. The sex scene between him and Missandei certainly caused a lot of discussion online as many couldn't help but question how they would have sex - to which we say pleasure isn't always about receiving, and that Google is your friend. We're deeply invested in their love subplot, and eagerly await what Season 8 has in store for one of our favourite lovebirds. VERDICT: WRONG 5. Ellaria Sand (and The Sand Snakes) STATUS: COMPLICATED We clearly underestimated the evil of Cersei, which is something we didn't think would happen having witnessed how poisionous she has been over seven seasons. While two of the three Sand Snakes were killed during Euron's battle at sea, it was Ellaria's youngest daughter Tyene Sand who was captured with her mother. However things did have a dire end for the family from Dorne, with Cersei killing Tyene Sand the same way that Ellaria killed her daughter Myrcella. She placed a poisonous kiss on the youngest Sand Snake's mouth while they were tired up in the dungeons, ultimately leaving Ellaria to witness her daughter die in front of her eyes. While Ellaria isn't dead, she is captured, and Cersei intends to keep her prisoner so that, in Cersei's words, Ellaria can stare at her decaying daughter's body for the rest of her life. VERDICT: RIGHT 4. Tormund Giantsbane STATUS: UNCLEAR Tormund Giantsbane has been extremely loyal to Jon Snow, and it has been an honour to watch on the show. There was a moment where we expected the Wilding to be summoned by a White Walker, as they went on a quest to capture one as proof, but he made it our alive, thanks to Daenerys rescuing them. However in the Season Finale, we see that Tormund is stationed at Eastwatch to protect the Wall. The badass Wildling is seen trying to make it out alive while The Night King blasted the Wall with his own dragon (more on that below). In Game of Thrones, it would be a mistake to assume that anyone is dead unless you see it happen on screen, so for now we will have to wait and see for the show's final season before getting a clear answer on the matter. VERDICT: NEEDS MORE EVIDENCE 3. Meera Reed STATUS: ALIVE Meera Reed has been such a young warrior with a brave heart, and she, along with the help of Bran's Uncle Benjen, was the reason that the character formerly known as Bran could make it home. Meera did not meet her demise, but she and Bran parted on sad terms, as the more he becomes the Three-Eyed Raven, the less he is Bran. In another world, the two - who have been through a lot together - could have ended up together, but that is not meant to be. It is unclear if we have seen the last of the tough warrior, but she remains alive for know. Whether that will still be the case when the White Walkers attack, is anybody's guess... VERDICT: WRONG 2.  Cersei Lannister STATUS: STILL EVIL Anyone who sits on the Iron Throne eventually dies, and while we expected the current Queen to die, she is still ruling, but chances remain strong that she will meet her end in Season 8. Cersei got revenge for the death her children, but she is sitting very vulnerably as Daenerys has her outnumbered, and out-dragoned - but these things can change in the span of a single episode. Cersei's clouded judgement will likely see her make mistakes when it matters most in the final season of Game of Thrones. How it happens is unclear, but we're almost certain Cersei will end up six feet under. VERDICT: WRONG 1. Viserion STATUS: NIGHT KING'S NEW MODE OF TRANSPORT "No, not the dragon!" we heard you shout when the Night Knight used his impressive aim to bring down Viserion. It was a jaw dropping moment when the Night King brought down one of Daenerys Targaryen's babies. Although we have seen her show more affection towards Drogon (who obeys her most often), the moment Viserion was brought down, was as shocking for the Mother of Dragons as it was for the viewer. When we thought things couldn't get any worse, we witness how the Night King then used his army of undead to pull out Viserion from the icy depths he had sunk into, to be brought back to life as an undead dragon. As much as it pains us to say, we were spot on about this prediction - even the fact that he would be brought back to life: "When they are eventually let out, we foresee Viserion slain and brought back by the White Walkers." VERDICT: TOLD YOU SO Other predictions We also predicted Season 7 would include the death of another Stark - either Benjen or Arya - the death of Robin Arryn as leader of the Vale at the hand of Petyr Baelish, and a possible romance between Daenerys and fan favourite Jon Snow. 1. While we did see Uncle Benjen go down under a swarm of the undead as he rescued Jon, we have yet to see a body to fully confirm his death. 2. While we didn't even get to see the young, somewhat annoying leader of the Vale, it was actually Lord Baelish, commonly known as Littlefinger, who met his end. We were surprised by the bold move by Sansa to convict him, with Arya carrying out the sentence that ended his life. Big up to the Starks for sticking together on this one. 3. Our prediction for the romance turned out to be right. It was sealed with a kiss, and a true-to-form Game of Thrones sex scene.    The production of Season 8 is expected to get underway in October this year, with the final season only expected to debut in 2019 according to reports. We have a lot of plot twists and deaths ahead of us before finding out who will rule Westeros. Jon, Cersei, Daenerys, the Night King and a few unexpected players are all still vying to be rulers, but it will be a long wait before we find out exactly who. Cape Argus