The Women’s Legal Centre (WLC) wants the government to protect, promote and fulfil the rights of Muslim women and to recognise Muslim marriages as valid in South Africa. The government needs to amend current legislation, or enact new legislation in order for this to happen, the centre has said. Some Muslim women have brought cases before the court is order to secure their rights as married women to inheritance, among other issues. In one of these cases, Tamryn Faro, a Muslim woman, is suing, among others, the Master of the High Court as well as the Justice Ministry, because as someone married according to Muslim rites, she is struggling  to inherit from her husband’s estate. The WLC has filed a suit citing the president, the ministers of Justice and Correctional Services and Home Affairs, and the Speaker as respondents. The WLC argues that although other pieces of legislation protect some women and children in these cases, it becomes costly to bring them to court in piecemeal fashion. Several parties, including the United Ulama Council of SA, Muslim Assembly and Islamic Unity Convention, have been admitted as friends of the court. Monday marked the first leg in filing of the heads of argument. The WLC was first to address the bench comprising judges Siraj Desai, Nolwazi Boqwana and Gayaat Salie-Hlophe. Advocate Nazreen Bawa also said Muslim marriages were treated differently from the three existing types of marriages legislated. “Legislation offers protection of some women and children, but excludes those who are Muslim. Annually the WLC gets 1800 to 2000 clients and 15% of those are women-related queries directed to Muslim law. We are seeking recognition of Muslim marriages,” she said. Questioned by Judge Desai on whether the relief sought by the WLC was to supercede or challenge Islamic principles, Bawa said they did not seek for any amendments to be made on any of the existing Islamic laws. “In the relief we seek we are not saying to the court there is disrespect to the Qur’an, nor are we saying it should be amended,” said Bawa. Bawa said most of the WLC clients with queries relating to this matter are much older and are not educated. “Such women enter the marriage unaware that they have the same rights as their spouses.” She said in the WLC’s experience, the religious process of divorce in the Muslim marriages was facilitated by religious elders. Bawa will continue with her argument today.  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus