Cape Town - The residents of Masiphumelele are up in arms about canals in the area that are filled with running sewerage and are unhappy with the portable toilets provided. This comes after the City of Cape Town promised to clean the canals, which flow next to people’s informal structures. The public protector and the Human Rights Commission have visited the area. A community activist, Rosemary Milbank, said Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane said this is “the worse she has ever seen”. “They were horrified by it and the conditions in which people had to stay in. The City has since promised to clean the canals, but they only took the rubbish out of. It is unacceptable that people should live in conditions like this. The sewerage spills into the canals because the outlet pipes of the toilet systems are broken. “Here there are 264 toilets for 15 000 people. I want people to regain their dignity, but here in Masiphumelele people have to live next to toilets and sewage. The living conditions here are very bad and children play near the sewerage, which is a big health risk. “And when it rains in winter people’s homes are flooded with sewerage. No human being can live in conditions like these.” But Xanthea Limberg, mayoral committee member for informal settlements, utilities and energy, said on Sunday: “We clean the entire area seven days a week. And we are currently running an awareness communication campaign with the Human Right Commission in the area. And we have provided people with portable flush toilets.” Milbank added: "I was totally outraged when I saw the portable toilets, which they delivered to the people on Saturday. "One family gets provided with one, but it is the most undignified thing, because where do you put it in your little shack? Do they expect a family to sit in front of each other when they are on the toilet?” Regina Makhuphula, 93, said that she does not want the portable toilet. “You see it outside because I don't want it. I am an old lady. We thought that they were going to bring us flush toilets. I have arthritis in my legs and walk very slowly and I have to walk a distance to the nearest toilet, but I would rather walk there than to use this portable toilet. They must take it back.” Makhuphula’s daughter, Pam Makhuphula,  said: "I understand my mom's frustration with the new portable toilet. I know that she is not going to use it and that she would rather walk far and it is dangerous to walk to a toilet in the middle of the night. "Other people are also very unhappy about it. People want real flush toilets here.” Cape Argus