“I am so excited how Running4Pads has grown and has a life of its own now with people constantly donating where they can,” says Amanda Smith, who a year ago decided to run her first marathon for a cause. Running4Pads now involves a team of women and men who are all running – and even cycling – to collect sanitary towels for girls who cannot afford it. “This issue is always pertinent, but as it is Women’s Month it is more vital to talk about it. Why should girls miss a week of school every month for something they have no control over? Girls should not have to lose dignity every month simply because they cannot afford a pack of pads that is being sold with an exorbitant price tag,” says Smith. Earlier this year, Running4Pads not only achieved their target of 6 000 packs of sanitary pads ahead of the Old Mutual Two Oceans Marathon, but exceeded it. Now with the Sanlam Cape Town Marathon, fast approaching on September 17, the campaign is targeting 8 000 pads, and further hoping to have collected 12 000 packs of pads by the end of the year. “We have started distributing to various schools and organisations and it is great to see people’s appreciation; and it reemphasises the need for this basic necessity. People are now approaching us to say they also need sanitary products to keep their girls in school,” says Smith. Running4Pads has distributed mainly to schools in Bonteheuwel, Manenburg and Gugulethu. “The focus is to give the pads to girls to keep them in school, but we have distributed to other organisations if there has been a need, such as to SAPS victim rooms and people who lost everything in the Knysna fires,” explains Smith. “There has been some progress, but more always needs to be done. I will continue to run for pads until every girl who needs them is able to access them for free,” says Smith. There will also be a fundraiser, held at Cafe Extrablatt in Green Point on the 9th of September from 7.30pm afterwards where people can come donate pads to the worthy cause.  To find out how to get involved or to find the nearest collection point, get in touch on Twitter: @running4pads, on Facebook: Running4Pads, on their website: https://runningforsanitary.wixsite.com/running4pads  or email: runningforsanitarypads@yahoo.com and follow the #running4pads. CAPE ARGUS 