“The ANC is trying to play political games with the very serious issue of child killings. It is shameful to see how desperate the ANC is to retain some relevance in the province. “We need to talk about this as a society. We need to mobilise communities to take the lead in ensuring that the perpetrators are brought to justice. "Our government will continue to lead this much-needed conversation through our ministers of Social Development, Health and Community Safety. “Our government is playing a critical role in supporting victims and their families through the professional services in our Thuthuzela centres across the province, through counselling and support to families, and through our oversight role over the police and monitoring of court cases. "We need as a society to talk about the role that families play in ensuring the safety of their children. A children’s commissioner or even the SAPS cannot be present behind closed doors in the privacy of people’s homes where a worrying number of interpersonal violence incidents are taking place. “The ANC is also nevertheless aware that we are currently in the process of finalising a policy to guide the development of provincial legislation for the appointment of a children’s commissioner. “This policy will inform the functions and role of the proposed commissioner and enable the process to move forward. “The ANC must stop this shameful gimmick. Children’s lives are not for politicking." ANC provincial secretary Faiz Jacobs had said: “We need a responsive and caring government in the Western Cape and we require an urgent response, to this scourge of child murders. "The premier has failed for the last eight years to meet her constitutional obligation. We have acquired the services of of a senior counsel who will interdict the Premier of the Western Cape to, in line with Section 78 of the Western Cape constitution, appoint the provincial commissioner for children. "This commissioner, according to the Western Cape constitution, must assist the Western Cape government in protecting and promoting the interest of children in the province. “It is now abundantly clear that the premier has no interest in appointing this much-needed commissioner for children. Premier Zille promised to appoint a children’s commissioner in 2009 when she was elected. "She broke that promise. In 2015 she introduced a bill seeking to make the appointment of the commissioner discretionary, meaning that she can decide if she wants to appoint a commissioner. “The ANC agrees with the call by organisations that work in the child protection sectors for the appointment of a commission of inquiry into child murders in the Western Cape. To understand the real reasons why the children in the Western Cape are more vulnerable, investigate government shortcomings and explore concrete ways to enhance their protection." Cape Argus