England - Tributes are pouring out for Princess Diana on the 20th anniversary of her death. Dubbed the "people's princess" by then prime minister Tony Blair, she died after a car crash in Paris on 31 August 1997 aged 36. Twenty years after Princess Diana died, her legacy has still stayed with not only the British people, but also the rest of the world. Her sons, Prince William and Prince Harry, have also strive to keep her memory alive by continuing her humanitarian efforts. Princess Diana made a direct connection with the public - once running her own race in a flowing white skirt and baggy sweater - and promoted causes far from the mainstream at the time. 1. Landmine removals Princess Diana walked through an active minefield in Angola in January 1997, and detonated a mine in front of an audience of international reporters - with the help of a land mine removal expert. It was a moment that could have gone tragically wrong, but one that Diana was committed to highlighting.   2. Aids and HIV research In April 1987, Princess Diana opened the UK's first purpose built HIV/Aids unit that exclusively cared for patients infected with the virus, at London Middlesex Hospital. There was a lot of misconception about HIV/Aids at the time, but Princes Diana helped in educating people on the matter. In front of the world's media, Princess Diana shook the hand of a man suffering with the illness.   3. Breaking royal protocol Prince William was the first member of The Royal Family to be born in a public hospital. He, along with his brother Prince Harry were also the first to attend public school. It was these steps which help made the royal family relatable to the modern generation.   4. Fashion icon Princess Diana was also unafraid to make bold fashion choices. In a time where a more conservative approach was expected for someone from the British monarchy. She wasn't scared to dress how she saw fit.   5. Dancing Princess Another way in which Princess Diana stood out was her love for dancing. Alongside the posthumous report that Queen lead singer Freddie Mercury snuck her into a gay club, there was also the talked about moment when she danced with John Travolta. However the Princess received a lot of attention when she surprised an audience with a performance on stage with ballet dancer Wayne Sleep.   That legacy of Princess Diana lives on through her sons, who have adopted their mother's more personal approach to the monarchy and in the process reinvigorated the institution. They have had numerous benefits concerts in her honour, and recently paid a tribute to her. Cape Argus