Visiting the Mother City for a second time the BCS, made up of teenagers aged 14-18, touched and inspired many. Khanyiswa Piet, 17, a member of the Athlone School for Blind Choir, said she was initially very shy, but when she got on stage with the BCS  she became excited. “ I started to light up and started to sing along. It was fun and fascinating to have people from overseas and sing with us.” Head of department of the UWC Centre for the Performing Arts, Henriette Weber, said: “The idea and inspiration for doing a concert with the BCS  stems from an ongoing working relationship, which culminated in me initiating a partnership between UWC Centre for the Performing Arts and the Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport to support a music programme for early childhood development learners at the Athlone School for the Blind.” Athlone School for the Blind head of public relations Vera Petersen said, "It was just beautiful. Music plays an important role in our students' lives. "Blindness can be very lonely and quiet, but through music we connect very easily together. The atmosphere was filled (with) joy, excitement and happiness, everyone was singing and dancing along to the music.” Sinazo Siqaza, another member of the Athlone School for the Blind Choir, said: "We couldn't stop talking and laughing with them. "I like how we taught them how to play games with (the) use of hands the way we do it here in South Africa. "The experience was very exciting and the beautiful music we shared together.  We sang 'Shosholoza' together with the Boston Choir.” Weber added: “A performance of this nature at the Athlone School for the Blind has immense impact on pupils. When there is a visual disability, other senses are heightened and most of the time the auditory senses are more enhanced and visually-impaired persons are drawn to appreciating music and music performance. "At the concert, the blind learners were led to join in singing with the BCS. "What was amazing was their level of attention and how quickly they responded when directed to participate.   "They were exceptionally well behaved when one considers that the whole school from ECD to matric pupils shared the venue. “It was very fitting for the Boston City Singers to witness first-hand how music impacts the lives of the visually impaired. "The role of the centre is as liaison between schools, churches and community organisations that would benefit from the performances of this choir, which has broad international recognition for excellence.”  sibahle.skomolo@inl.co.za  Cape Argus