Controversy about his conduct and that of his superiors continues to swirl like the desert dust, precluding a final verdict. Klopper, a former school teacher, joined the small and under-equipped Union Defence Force (UDF) in 1924. A career soldier with solid military virtues, he was said to be popular with all ranks. His strengths lay mainly in training and staff matters and he had no opportunity to gain battle experience. He nevertheless reached the rank of general in the comparatively short period of 17 years. When General Jan Smuts rallied his supporters to the British cause in 1939, the UDF expanded rapidly. Officers like Klopper and thousands of rank and file volunteers prepared to serve “up north” against the Italians, who joined the war in June 1940. By May 1942 Klopper was in Egypt, where he was promoted to command the 2nd SA Infantry Division, a relatively inexperienced force. By then, the Germans had overrun much of Western Europe but had failed to invade Britain. Hostilities continued at sea and in the air, and in land campaigns in Russia and the Balkans. The Allies had some initial successes in North Africa, where they had the Italians on the run, but everything changed when the brilliant German general Erwin Rommel arrived to bolster the wavering Italian defence in February 1941. Instead of merely holding the line with his limited forces, Rommel took the initiative and drove the Allies all the way back to the Egyptian border in the east, bypassing the garrison at Tobruk, where an Australian force held out for five months before being replaced by sea. Then it was the Allies’ turn to push westwards, which they did with temporary success until 1942, when Rommel, who had been re-supplied, launched a new offensive, forcing the Allies to retreat over familiar ground in disarray. Klopper assumed command of Tobruk during this chaotic period and was issued with conflicting instructions which hinged on whether the fortress was attacked or bypassed. He was also given vague promises of support. Meanwhile, the perimeter defences had not been maintained and there was uncertainty over the status of the minefields. Communication with troops was erratic and confusion reigned. Conditions were ideal for Rommel, the wily Desert Fox. His tanks appeared to bypass the port but then swooped in from the desert on June 20, 1942 following a fierce aerial bombardment. The fate of Tobruk hung in the balance. Part 2 to be published next week. * Jackie Loos writes her "The Way We Were" column in the Cape Argus every week. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus