Smith said that over the next five years, the city would zero in on domestic violence, starting in Delft. “We have seen good interruption programmes all over the world with very focused interventions into how to identify early indicators of violence through the protection orders that women seek. We will give life to that in Delft.” “While we make a noise about gangsterism, fewer people will die at the hands of gang violence than will die because of domestic violence. The majority of people murdered are killed by people they know and very often it is boyfriends and husbands.” Smith said that often if due process was followed from the first violent act reported, many of the murders could have been prevented. Mayor Patricia de Lille said the city could not give up on the fight to rid the country of the “despicable occurrence” that is woman abuse. De Lille obtained the 50 beds from the city’s disaster management storage facility after hearing of the centre’s need for more accommodation. “We have to take the lead from these courageous women who refused to be victims any longer and chose to survive with their children. These women and children deserve a comfortable and conducive environment to aid their recovery - which the centre is providing - but I’m hoping these 50 beds will be able help even more.” To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. She lauded the centre’s work and said it had shown a number of positive results in the adjoining communities. The centre's director, Shaheema Mcleod, said it was  grateful for the beds and that this would go a long way in assisting the women and children at the centre. “It is 50 more beds than we had and we are sincerely thankful for what you have done. It takes friends, family and the community to pay it forward and create a better society.” Mcleod said it was heartbreaking to pick up a newspaper and see children and women being killed on a daily basis. “We are faced with a very dire situation in our country and it is damaging our communities and the lives of our women and children.”  yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus