Cape Town - The Orion Organisation, which cares for severely mentally and physically disabled people in Atlantis, outside Cape Town, has benefited from a donation of movable, modular homes. The units, worth more than R1.1 million, were donated by Sulzer, an international industrial engineering company, which had just concluded work on Eskom's open cycle gas turbine Ankerlig power plant situated in the Atlantis area. The units were transported to the Orion Organisation by subcontractors Babcock as part of its donation. The modular homes were being used for the last two years as Sulzer completed its installations at Ankerlig. The units are all fully air-conditioned and insulated, with laminate flooring, aluminium windows, solar geysers, fire extinguishers, tables, chairs, lockers, six showers, and water and electrical connections. "These four modular structures will now allow us to have a full training centre; a lounge and relaxation area for the staff of our  work centre – Orion currently offers training and contract work to many of the disabled of the area as they subcontract packaging and assembly from a variety of businesses locally; an Art Centre and a much needed additional storage facility," Orion CEO Hannl Cronje said. "This all happened so fast that we were taken aback by the incredible will to get things done by Sulzer. On day one they went to the local police station to ask if there was an organisation that needed help, they were referred to us and literally a week later the homes where on the way to us. "We were astounded by the logistics required to move the homes from one site to ours, but the teams of Sulzer and Babcock were unbelievable and made it all happen almost effortlessly – they coordinated all the teams, equipment, traffic escort, permits, etc. with such passion and enthusiasm. "We are humbled by their incredible generosity and saying thank you seems so little. This is a great example of when a business takes care of the community within which it works and wants to be part of the growth and development," Cronje said. Cape Argus