Cape Town - Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille visited the volatile area of Masiphumelele with Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane and South African Human Rights Commissioner Chris Nissen to inspect and report on the work the City of Cape Town is undertaking in the area. The area is severely overcrowded and has often erupted in public violence and service delivery protest action. Masiphumelele is one of more than 200 informal settlements in the city, with many settlements continuing to grow. De Lille said she understood that people did not want to move from Masiphumelele as it was situated close to economic opportunities and jobs. "As a result of the high densities in Masiphumelele in order to improve the conditions in the area and address health risks, the City provides cleaning services seven days a week," De Lille said. "There are many obstacles to providing services in Masiphumelele for a variety of structural reasons. Residents settled on the wetland area despite the legal impediments to installing electricity and sanitation infrastructure there, and the City has been in the process of systematically remedying this situation for many years. "Despite the challenges the City is facing in the area, we are committed to finding sustainable and integrated solutions to improve the living conditions of the community through enhanced service delivery," De Lille said. According to the City of Cape Town these are the current work and cleaning services carried out in Masiphumelele:
 
·         Between 20 and 24 August sewer lines were unblocked on more than one occasion in various parts of the informal settlement using a Jet Truck.
 
·         This is similar to all other weekly reports which also include regular repairs to taps and unblocking of toilets.
 
·         There are currently 19 Expanded Public Works Programme (EPWP) workers who are employed to clean the canal seven days a week while machines are also brought in to clean the canal.
 
·         There are 21 EPWP janitors and two supervisors responsible for cleaning more than 220 full flush toilets in the area.
  
·         The City is progressing with the R2.5million tender for the construction of wash houses. The City envisages that the contractor will be on site in October 2017 and work is set to be completed in January 2018.
 
"The City has gone to great lengths to keep the area clean and the problem is not that we do not clean the area. We provide extensive cleaning services but the area does not stay clean for long and one of the reasons for this is that the bins in the area are not utilised properly. This poses a severe health risk to residents especially children.  "We have enhanced the supervision of the cleaning services and we have appealed to residents of Masiphumelele asking them to help us to keep the area clean as we are currently spending R1million per quarter on cleaning services in the area.
 
"Despite providing refuse collection 7 days a week, and litter pickups on a near-daily basis, high levels of littering and illegal dumping means that the area is never clean for long.
 
"We have also shared reports with the Public Protector on how the work being done is being closely monitored and this includes photos taken before and after cleaning," De Lille said. She also said there were plans for future developments in the area that would include the provision of housing, upgrading and upscaling of transport infrastructure and the extension of one of Masiphumelele's main roads, Houmoed Avenue. "One myth that must be debunked is that the City does not care about Masiphumelele. We have been working with the community and will continue to do so but it is the political interference that is exploiting the situation which stalls progress," De Lille said. Cape Argus