This week, Ronaldo van Rooyen, 34, and Tawfeeq Ebrahim, 26, accused of the murder of  Kuilsriver mother-of-two Zara Hector, will be making their first appearance in the court. Hector was hit five times on the head with a hammer on March 15, 2016. Her body was found wrapped in canvas and dumped on a farm in Groot Drakenstein. It is alleged she was on her way to Blackheath to return her boyfriend’s BMW Z3 when the attack occurred. In a bail application at the Blue Downs Magistrate’s Court, it was heard that the 33-year-old’s murder was planned by the two accused. The car she was driving would be sold to compensate for the money she owed Van Rooyen. Both men are in custody. A new matter on the roll is the murder of 6-year-old Saadiqah Lippert, who was hit by a stray bullet while playing with a friend in Bokmakierie in Athlone, in May last year. She died two days after the shooting, in hospital. This week, the two men accused of her murder, Samier Slamang and Waylon Both, will stand trial. Multiple murderer Cameron Wilson, 20,  will also make a brief appearance for a date to be set for his sentencing. Two months ago, Wilson was found guilty of killing five people, including 18-year-old Lekita Moore from Valhalla Park while he was on bail on another murder charge. It is alleged he stabbed the teen 98 times. During the four month trial, Wilson faced 15 charges, including rape and attempted murder. He was acquitted on two of those charges. The trial of two cousins accused of raping and killing 19-year-old Khayelitsha teen, Sinoxolo Mafevuka, resumes today. Mafevuka’s body was found at the SST Block communal toilets in Khayelitsha on March 2, 2016. The accused, Athabile Mafilika and Xolisa Mafilika, have been on trial for the past three months. At least two witnesses told the court they had seen and heard voices of the two accused near the toilets. One witness went further and testified to say the two men were dragging a screaming girl, the night before the body was discovered. Clothing found at the scene have also been linked to the accused by neighbours. CAPE ARGUS