Cape Town - A suspect has been arrested for the attempted murder of a 12-year-old girl. On Sunday, the girl was shot in the head by a stray bullet in what's believed to have been a gang gun battle. She was sitting outside her home in Glider Street, playing with her mom’s cell phone when she was struck. She survived and is currently being treated at Groote Schuur Hospital. Police on Monday apprehended a suspect they believe is responsible. "Detectives worked around the clock and pursued every possible avenue, which was rewarded with the arrest of a 24-year-old suspect during the early hours of (Monday) morning in Factreton," police spokesperson Andrè Traut said. The suspect is due to make a court appearance on Wednesday in Cape Town on a charge of attempted murder. The latest shooting sent shockwaves through the greater community of Kensington. "We are currently living in constant fear because we are not sure whose child will be next," Kensington Community Policing Forum secretary Cheslyn Steenberg said. "We're also very frustrated and we have just lost faith in these institutions who are suppose to assist us." Steenberg said that the community is planning a picket in September to vent their issues regarding the ongoing violence in the area. "We will also be requesting a meeting with the police minister asking for assistance," he said. City of Cape Town mayoral committee member for safety and security; and social services JP Smith is calling for an urgent intervention with SAPS regarding the ongoing gang shootings on the Cape Flats. "What's happening in Kensington is exactly the same thing which is happening in Manenberg and Lavender Hill. We have 550 metro police officers. We're not going to fix this with 550 metro police officers who still have to manage traffic and bylaw enforcement. "There needs to be a massive intervention with Saps because they are not coming to the party," Smith said. Smith said he has written to Premier Helen Zille and Community Safety MEC Dan Plato to intervene urgently. Smith said last week a record 128 shootings were recorded in Manenberg.  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus