Mtongana, 32, is an example of a woman who has pushed the boundaries and is living out her dreams. With a relatively young career, she has won the hearts, and stomachs, of millions across 150 countries where her Food Network Channel cooking show, Siba’s Table, is aired. Her energy on set is palpable, and in person she is just as amazing, if not more. Her warmth and charm keeps you comforted long after she has left your presence. It’s no wonder that she is a huge success. Her authenticity is the biggest draw card. Mtongana is passionate about breaking down stereotypes which create barriers for women wanting to excel. She identifies with the need for women to overcome their irrational fears of being inadequate in a maledominated world. “The first barrier to female leadership is the stereotypical idea that males are better leaders than women. And it is not a South African stereotype either, it is an international one.” Many bras have been burned and the uphill battle of feminism has yet to been won. The wheel turns too slowly for woman equality and it is still astounding that the simplest solutions of creating change for women in the workplace have not been encouraged and enforced. Mtongana brought to light a relevant issue that urgently needs to be addressed. “Using myself as an example, I didn’t have any maternity leave when I had my children. So when I had meetings in Joburg or in Durban, after I had my last born, Buchle, I made a decision that she was going to cling on to me everywhere I go. I had to take it upon myself to create an environment that would make her part of my livelihood. "When I attended out-of-town meetings, I made sure I took my nanny and organised an extra room so that I could breastfeed in between meetings. I still wanted to be a mom but I am a working woman and I still want to be thriving in business.” Not wanting to miss out on any opportunity, she also did not want to lose out on time with her child. She cleverly created an environment to help her achieve both. She said that often women were frowned upon if you said you were bringing your nanny and your child as if it was unprofessional, but she felt it was the most responsible solution for her. “Because there are not enough women are in leadership, these things are not considered and not catered for. If there were more women in important roles, they would have the authority to influence change and this might bring about simple yet necessary changes.” Growing up, Mtongana was one of eight children from the Mdantsane township in the Eastern Cape. Her mum was a teacher and her father a supervisor for a leather goods manufacturer. It is from them she learnt that hard work wins the race. It seems easy enough when you have a dream and know what you want to do. Not so for Mtongana. It took some convincing. “When I decided I wanted a career in food, my mother was beside herself. She was horrified. She thought I was going to be a lawyer. She sat me down and said she understood I wanted to take a gap year and this ‘food thing’ could be that gap year so she’d allow it. Mama said they had worked so hard to get the girls out of the kitchen and now you voluntarily want to go back?” Mtongana knew what her heart wanted and admits it was the greatest gift that her parents allowed her to follow her dream. It was that very same fear of letting them down with bad grades that motivated Mtongana to perform. She knew that if she failed she was going straight back to their dream of her becoming a lawyer. After completing a degree in food science and nutrition, she was snatched up by Drum Magazine as the assistant food editor. She later became food editor. Her first TV cooking show aired on the Africa Channel in 2010 and she caught the eye of the world’s largest food channel, Food Network, and they couldn’t keep their hands off her. She was swiftly signed by the channel and her first season of Siba’s Table aired in September 2013. Four years later she is a cooking sensation, has millions of followers the world over and has not even reached the peak of her career yet. A  question Mtongana has been asked many times over is: what does it take to be a successful woman? “First, I have to sigh. This sigh indicates the amount of work you have to do, not only as a woman but as a woman of colour. It is a fact that as a woman you have to work a thousand times harder than your male counterpart or people from other races. “You are not trusted enough until you prove it. But the amount of work it takes to convince people of your worth is a lot more.  And it is unfortunate that this is the world that we live in, women have to keep proving themselves. You have to immerse yourself in the job, you must create a gap that only you can fill. You need to make your mark and work your craft so that only you can fill that void successfully." While everyone with a smartphone considers themselves an expert, influencer and foodie these days, her best advice is not to base your career on a trend. “It’s not now that food is big that I am jumping on that bandwagon. I chose food before the hype. Don’t chose your career based on the hype because once that is gone, your work must match your worth over the hype.” Sound words on choosing a career. Mtongana married her Prince Charming in 2010, and if you watch Siba’s Table then you know exactly how Brian fits into the storyline. She proudly acknowledges that his encouragement and motivation is everything. They have three beautiful children together, Lonwabo, Linamandla and Buchlebe. When she talks about her children, her voice drops a notch and you can hear her pride swell. In a world that so desperately needs guidance, Mtongana teaches her children that not even the sky in the limit. “First they must know that all things are possible. I encourage my kids to not look at life with limited eyes but to look at life with all its full potential. I tell them: ‘You guys are amazing!’ I encourage them. "We were raised very conservatively and that impacts on your self-confidence and how you question things. “We were never allowed to ask questions so we were always limited as to what we could contribute as a child. We were taught that you have to respect your elders. That impacted on how I questioned authority in university or with the people I worked with.” While respect is a huge contributor to being a success, Mtongana says there is a balance that needs to be considered. “I was raised to respect elders regardless if they were right or wrong. When I had to be a person of authority to an older person, I found it really hard to get that right I think there needs to be a fair balance that goes with it. So I teach my kids it’s fine to question, they must ask what they want and I will try and answer it the best way I can. But I still teach them respect so they understand how to treat people.” For young women who are looking for career guidance, Mtongana encourages them to let go of self-doubt and take the road less travelled. Self-doubt is your biggest enemy, she says. She is a force to be reckoned with. While food is her primary focus right now, she sees future Siba as having transcended from just being a person involved in food to a businesswoman of substance with a voice of authority for Africa. “I want to play a bigger role in Africa, whether it be socio-economic issues that I need to add value to or just a voice for women, a voice for children, a voice for Africans or a voice for people in developing countries. "I am appreciative of what food has offered me as a career, but I want to be more than just the pretty lady in the kitchen who creates recipes. I want to influence, to bring about good change in people’s lives.” And there is no doubt that Mtongana will reach that not too distant goal. On a parting note, with her infectious smile, she says that as South Africans we are lucky to have a huge advantage: “We have Madiba magic!” SIBA'S ROLE MODELS I have a few. From personal experience, my mother. She is such an industrious woman. She is quiet, an introvert, but mama worked hard and if she didn’t have something, it’s because she didn’t have the desire to have it. If she wanted it, she would work hard for it. She is a retired teacher now but when I was in matric, she decided she wanted to improve herself and get her honours in education. We all laughed, we teased her that she would not be able to keep up with the kids in university, that she was rusty. And my mother, almost at retirement age passed with distinctions and she ended up doing her doctorate. So we have a first-hand experience of a woman in our family in her old age who just kept on improving herself and kept on defying the odds. And then on a local level, Khanyi Dhlomo Mkhize, she stood out for me even as a young child, I looked up to her. I watched her journey from being the face of a beauty product to being a news reader to becoming a beauty editor, then an editor. She then went on to graduate from Harvard University and now has her own publishing empire. And being a woman of colour, for me it means that we all have our own journey and the onus is on us to push that envelope at the different stages of our life. Women such as Khanyi stand out as such great examples for us. And internationally there is Oprah Winfrey, being also a woman of colour, pushing the boundaries in an obscure racist world, she managed to break through and make her voice an authority. She inspires me to reach for the stars. I look at these women and think, wow, if they can do it, then so can I. I take lessons from them, about the things they have had to endure so when my time comes to endure, I do it gracefully. Cape Argus