Cape Town - At least 15 people have been killed in the last two weeks as gang-related shootings appear to be spiralling out of control in Bishop Lavis. Community Policing Forum (CPF) chairperson Graham Lindhorst said the shootings had "intensified in the area". "It's become a lot. Sunday there were three fatalities in the area," he said. Those fatalities were men aged 23, 33 and 36. They were killed late on Sunday afternoon. In the early hours of Tuesday morning, another person was shot dead. The violence is believed to be gang related. Police spokesperson Leon Fourie said additional officers were sent to the area "immediately". "This office can confirm the incidents took place. They (the killings) are under investigation. No arrests have yet been made." "It's gotten very bad over the past few weeks," Lindhorst said, "and it's not becoming easy especially for our children who have to go to school. They really are fearing for their lives," Lindhorst said. Parliament had also noted the increase in gang violence. Portfolio committee on Basic Education chairperson Nomalungelo Gina said: "Parliament’s Portfolio Committee on Basic Education has noted with grave concern issues of gang violence in most of the schools that it has visited so far in the Western Cape over the last two days." "Our learners and youth are our future. We cannot play with their lives or allow outside elements to put them at risk. "The Committee continues with its oversight visit in the Western Cape tomorrow (Wednesday) with visits to schools in the Cape Winelands area of Paarl." The police patrols had been increased in the area after six people were killed and 12 others injured in one incident nine days ago. "We are currently in talks with the police and we are constantly informing them about the shootings," Lindhorst continued. "Yesterday (Monday) it was so bad some schools had to send their children home." Bishops School of Skills principal Quentin Newman, who had faced several death threats in the past, said he was angry that the ward councillor had shown no interest in the latest gang activities. "I am very angry at the fact that our leaders have not come and visited our area and reacted to these attacks." Newman tearfully recounted an incident in which two pupils were killed in the crossfire of rival gangs two weeks ago. "I am pleading with stakeholders to get involved and to assist us where they can and help us deal with this matter." Violence in the area escalated after two petrol attendants were shot dead. A third employee was injured in the shooting. Mayoral committee member for Safety and Security; and Social Services JP Smith said: "What I know is that there are 22 000 Saps members and our job as the City is to do traffic and bylaw enforcement. The whole scope of the problem is resources. The city is spending R46 million on crime prevention." Smith said the problem of gang violence needed more attention at national government level. "This problems cannot be fixed by local government. If you are waiting for local government to solve this, you are waiting in vain. National government needs to start making this a priority," Smith said.  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus