Cape Town The National Council for the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (NSPCA) has welcomed online classifieds website Gumtree s decision to ban the sale of all donkeys and mules on its platforms. The decision came after the NSPCA lobbied Gumtree. The website said it hoped the decision would help play a role in the reduction of animal cruelty. Gumtree has decided to ban the sale of all donkeys and mules on the site, not just the hides and byproducts, the company said.The NSPCA said the move was a significant step towards its aim of having no live animal traded online, and would aid animal protection by removing a specific market or forum for those who trade in the animals or their parts. Online advertising effectively treats animals as commodities which they are not. The ban follows the recent news in which donkey skins with an estimated value of R2 250 000 were located at a warehouse in Randfontein.Donkeys are being slaughtered in South Africa to supply smugglers who export the skins to China, where they are believed to have medicinal properties.Gelatin-rich donkey skin is used in traditional Chinese medicine to treat ailments such as insomnia, and is also an ingredient in a treatment said to delay menopause in women. The donkey skin issue has brought the matter to the fore, said Christine Kuch of the NSPCA. It is a major step forward that Gumtree has taken, and for this we support and thank them. They have taken the lead on this issue and deserve credit for recognising the implications and effect of internet advertising of this kind.&quot; We call upon other websites to follow this worthy lead and to widen this to include all animals. There is also a petition for Gumtree to ban the selling of puppies and kittens. Ebay, Gumtree s parent company, does not allow the sale of animals, it is time for Gumtree to follow suit! reads the petition. It is unacceptable that reputable vet clinics are being inundated with dumped kittens and puppies too young to leave their mother, unvaccinated and full of disease while unscrupulous breeders continue to add to the issue by selling unvaccinated babies! The petition on Change.org currently has more than 46 300 supporters, and still needs about 3 700 to reach its goal of 50 000.Cape Argus