That is usually a signal to explain the specialism you want to follow: plastic surgery, cardiology, psychiatry, endocrinology: there are many possibilities. At the time, I would respond that I wanted to be in a position to serve those who got sick, whoever they were, wherever they lived. Most of all I wanted to serve those who were most in need, who, without help, would suffer greatly or die. I wanted to be a good doctor, one who brought good quality care to those in need: who would help them keep healthy and avoid debilitating illness. I have worked in South Africa several times throughout my career across a range of issues including strengthening health systems – the very core of how we maintain happy, healthy lives. It will not come as a surprise to say, as in many countries, I saw disparities between rural and urban populations in South Africa and it is vital we do not allow these gaps to widen. Progress is encouraging and I have been privileged to work with the director-general of the Department of Health, Precious Matsoso, who, working closely with Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi, has ensured health systems enable South Africa’s people to access the services they need and promote public health. When governments are not able, or not properly resourced, to spark change or respond to health emergencies, they look to the World Health Organisation (WHO). The WHO helps countries work out how best to organise health services for their people, and help them to respond to infectious disease outbreaks – not an easy task, given that every country has very different needs. So why am I the right person for the job? The director-general is responsible for directing the WHO as it undertakes actions that impact on the health and well-being of billions of people. It is perhaps one of the most important jobs in the world. This deep ambition to help people and to improve their well-being drove me to work in South Africa, in Nepal, Iraq, Bangladesh and right across Africa – in more than 50 countries so far. That was my ambition then, and it is my ambition now more than ever. Perhaps that is the underlying reason why I am pleased to be nominated, by the UK, as a candidate to be the next director-general of WHO. It is the role that I have been training for my entire life: I am motivated to do it by every patient I’ve ever treated, and by every community that I have served -including my time spent in Cape Town, Johannesburg and Pretoria. Whoever runs the WHO must have proven experience in responding to disease outbreaks and emergencies, working in different national settings, and commanding the respect of international health professionals from the full range of government and non-government organisations. The DG must also command the respect of many thousands of hardworking and dedicated health professionals, including midwives, nurses, pharmacists, laboratory workers, first responders and all kinds of doctors. This is especially important for those who fight for people’s lives on the frontline. Preventing sickness means working with multiple partners inside and outside government, including science, civil society, faith groups and business, and making sure they work in synergy to deliver results. The DG must be able to work with everyone – whoever they are, wherever they live, whatever their needs. Success only happens if WHO is seen as attractive for investment – and not just by governments. The DG must be able to generate investments and show they are well used. Working for health requires gender-sensitive strategies and a feminist perspective, with full involvement of women at all levels – especially as decision makers. The DG must commit to the realisation of all human rights. I want to see equal numbers of men and women decision-makers at all levels of the WHO within five years. The DG needs the scientific background, the connections and the organisational ability to ensure that polio is eradicated, to advance efforts against HIV/Aids, tuberculosis and malaria, to face up to chronic diseases and to tackle super-bugs that are resistant to antibiotics (anti-microbial resistance, or AMR). Also, the DG must have experience of working with world leaders, politicians and funders and be familiar with the intricacies of the UN system. I have successfully served under several UN secretaries-general working on Ebola, food security and nutrition as well as avian influenza. WHO DG is a challenging and important role. It is huge, and it matters to everyone throughout our world, including those in South Africa. All of the 50 countries where I have been fortunate enough to work in have helped shape who I am today, and I want to be there to help to shape the South Africa of the future, and the health of its people, especially women and children. Whether it is to improve health security or reduce the spread of infectious diseases, the WHO has much to offer South Africa. Like many countries, South Africa is also grappling with an increasing number of non-communicable, or so-called “lifestyle” diseases – heart disease, cancer and diabetes. Doing more to address these challenges is one of my top three priorities should I become the WHO’s DG. * Nabarro is one of three final candidates for director-general of the WHO. He has worked as a doctor, educator and international civil servant in global health for more than 40 years, across more than 50 countries. Find out more at www.davidnabarro.info ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus