Cape Town – Thousands of people on the Cape Flats who for years depended on the services provided by the Cape Flats Distress Association (Cafda) from their premises in Retreat, are at risk of losing out after it emerged that the complex is going up for sale for R22 million. Cafda provides a variety of NGO services and the centre is also used for government services such as social grant payouts, health services and skills development. The ward councillor of the area, Shanen Rossouw, is outraged. “That building has been around for years, and of course there is a history attached to it because it belongs to the people,” Rossouw said. She said Cafda’s executive board was aware of the need for the centre, mainly because it provides a variety of services such as child and family support, a dance theatre and job creation projects. It also hosts various workshops and serves as a soup kitchen for the homeless and vulnerable on a regular basis. The Cafda complex provides services to 13 areas on the Cape Flats, including Cafda (the area adjacent to the centre), Retreat, Grassy Park and Ottery. Cafda was established in 1944 after a commission of inquiry concluded in 1942 that the conditions of people living in the southern areas of the Cape Peninsula “is appalling”. The inquiry, conducted while South Africa was engaged in World War II, said that many of the people lived in poverty, contracted diseases, suffered from malnutrition and often encountered severe flooding of their homes in winter. Rossouw said she was so upset at the decision to sell, that she called a public meeting on Wednesday. The board of Cafda apparently refused to attend. “They should’ve included the public in their decision." “I would’ve liked them to attend so that they could inform us further about this decision,” Rossouw said. Community leader Phillip Bam said the correct procedures for the sale had not been followed. “In business, the right thing to do would be to involve the public and inform them of the decision, I’m also aware that they want to move the complex further away,” said Bam. None of the board members of Cafda were willing to reply to queries and instead said they would consult with their legal team on their response. The Western Cape Department of Social Development said it was aware of the proposed sale. Sihle Ngobese, spokesperson for Social Development MEC Albert Fritz, said: “The minister (MEC) is aware of the matter, and officials from our Metro South Regional Office have kept abreast with developments." “Ultimately the department will put in place contingency plans to ensure services are not disrupted, whichever way the Cafda decision ends up." “Residents in need of community services can continue approaching DSD social workers at their nearest regional or local office.” Cape Argus