Da Gama is keen on the vacant post, saying so on Tuesday night shortly after Bafana’s goalless draw against Angola at the Buffalo City Stadium. He said he believed he was qualified enough to succeed Shakes Mashaba, who was sacked three months ago. But his name seems not to have come up during the tough search for a permanent coach. The new man will definitely need feedback on the two games, which served as preparation for the upcoming back-to-back 2018 World Cup qualifiers against Cape Verde in August and September. “We will present him with all the videos,” Da Gama said. “And we will give him as much information as possible. It’s about the country, not about individuals. I believe we must give out as much intellectual property as there is. I have been very fortunate in that I speak to Steve Komphela (Chiefs), Pitso Mosimane (Sundowns) and Gordon Igesund (ex-Bafana coach now with Highlands Park). We will impart this as well. It will be positive stuff mostly.” He then went on to punt himself for the hot seat. “I think it is any coach’s dream, and the response from the players has been fantastic,” said Da Gama. “Whatever happens will happen, but I think I am very capable and have proved it beyond doubt. "I hear about people that are qualified to be here, and I am not. I don’t understand that, and maybe I should try to understand it a little bit more. With over 50 games with Bafana and watching over 200 games in the country, I think I know and have an idea as to what is happening in the national set-up. "I have coached for over 11 years in the PSL, including being at a big club like Orlando Pirates. I am not saying I am the right man, but I certainly believe I understand South African football very well and have the experience.” It is still unclear who will replace Mashaba at this stage after several ideal candidates failed to agree terms with Safa in negotiating a contract. But on Tuesday night, one of the coaches previously linked to the Bafana job, Hugo Broos,  triggered speculation again. The Belgian held a press conference following Cameroon’s friendly against Guinea in Brussels and claimed that his employers, the Cameroon FA, owed him at least six months’ salary and that he was re-evaluating his future. Broos guided the Indomitable Lions to the Africa Cup of Nations title in February. Safa president Danny Jordaan revealed earlier this month that Broos was on the verge of signing a five-year contract to become Bafana coach until his greedy agent halted negotiations when he demanded a 20 percent cut of his client’s annual salary. Should Jordaan be keen to re-open talks with the 64-year-old, it would be interesting to see how he freezes the agent out of the negotiation process at the second time of asking. @superjourno Cape Argus