Cape Town A Khayelitsha community day centre has been given a facelift following complaints over an overflow in patients and space constraints.On Monday, Health MEC Nomafrench Mbombo officially reopened the Michael Mapongwana Community Day Centre, which received upgrades to its maternal and child health unit (MCUH).Departmental spokesperson Sithembiso Magubane said the new establishment of the community day centre was in response to public, staff and management raising service delivery challenges experienced at the previous, small, child health unit. Due to the ever-increasing number of patients, space constraints and less than desirable working conditions, the Health Department decided to upgrade the community day centre. These conditions had led to poor patient flow and negative patient experience, which also impacted negatively on quality service delivery. Magubane said the monthly total primary health care headcount at Michael Mapongwana was between 27 000 and 30 000 patients in more than five years.He said that in order to create space, the unit was integrated with the midwife obstetric unit to become an MCUH.The unit has eight rooms to accommodate all the required services for paediatrics. This new facility should improve both mother and child experience.Some of the services offered at the community centre include comprehensive maternal, child and women healthcare, nutrition, dispensing relevant medication, immunisation and oral rehydration to name a few.At the opening event Mbombo said: Our focus this year is patient-centred care and ensuring that our patients receive quality healthcare in all corners of the province. This new maternal health unit is a response to the health needs of this community, and we strive for better patient experience in all our facilities. The community centre upgrade was welcomed by local residents as well as activists.Khayelitsha Health Forum s Mzanywa Ndibongo said the upgrade would help a lot at the clinic because it was too small before.He said there were a lot of mothers in Khayelitsha and this would accommodate all of them. The rooms will be bigger, so visitors can enjoy their time with family members. We are really happy about this. The Treatment Action Campaign s Andile Madondile said mothers would not be forced to wait outside anymore and they would have some privacy. This will help a lot and I m happy it has been finished. Mothers will get their dignity back, he said. Cape Argus