CAPE TOWN – “There is a concern. I think if you look at attendances around the world, in Test cricket they’re on the decline, and it’s probably only in England that we sell out most days for Test matches.” This was the view of England fast bowler James Anderson earlier this week in relation to the future of the five-day game. It is hard to disagree with Anderson in terms of the numbers coming through the turnstiles to watch Test cricket, especially outside “The Big Three” countries of England, Australia and India. Even in South Africa – bar the Newlands New Year Test – numbers are not the greatest, with spectators preferring the comfort of flicking through the channels on their couches. Anderson went further, stating that it was the rise of T20 cricket that had influenced crowd attendances at Test cricket. My personal opinion, though, is that Test cricket cannot be more electrifying than it currently is. It certainly offers the viewer far greater excitement than T20 can ever do. At the moment there are some riveting Test series on the go. The India-Australia contests have had all the drama of a soap opera, with a Days of Our Lives episode struggling to match it. Just like in every “soapie” there is a “villain”, with Australia captain Steve Smith earning the ire of his rival Virat Kohli, who alleged he tried to “cheat” when he looked over to the dressing-room for assistance with a DRS decision. Equally, there have been unlikely heroes on both sides, with Steve O’Keefe and Nathan Lyon shining for the Aussies, and Cheteshwar Pujara and Wriddhiman Saha for the hosts. The action has had viewers from all around the world glued to their TV sets. T20 cricket cannot replicate such theatre even on its best day. Across a couple of continents and time zones, there has been an intriguing series contested between New Zealand and South Africa. While there has been none of the hair-pulling, handbag-waving and name-calling that have occurred in India – skippers Kane Williamson and Faf du Plessis have preferred to behave like adults on the field – the action has been no less gripping. The teams are very evenly matched and have been focused on how to outwit each other, rather than on improving their sledging tactics. The surfaces around New Zealand have also made for interesting viewing, with the Black Caps opting for spin-friendly tracks, a tactic which has backfired on the home side thus far. A final shootout awaits this weekend in Hamilton on a “dustbowl” that will bring the Proteas’ Wellington hero Keshav Maharaj firmly back into the game. Equally in Sri Lanka, the battle between the hosts and “minnows” Bangladesh has been intriguing. No longer the pushovers of the Test world, especially in sub-continent conditions, Bangladesh have fought bravely.  Playing in their 100th Test last week, the Tigers celebrated the milestone by knocking over Rangana Herath’s men by four wickets in Colombo to record their first victory away from home against top-class opponents. What can be more thrilling than witnessing a “David v Goliath” success? As an England legend, Anderson is right to be concerned about the future of the format of the game he holds so dear. But it surely is not the fault of the players who are currently providing fabulous entertainment all around the world in the Test arena. Cape Argus