Cape Town A relative, who survived a shooting spree by three men in uMlazi at the weekend that left four members of his family dead, was told to look away while one of the men raped a young woman who was in the house at the time.Nathi Mzila, 43,said he would not wish the horrific ordeal on his worst enemies, including his attackers.His mother, S bongile, 59; two brothers Mlungisi, 35, and Lungisani, 27; and 34-year-old sister Hlengiwe were killed when the gang stormed their home in G-section uMlazi early on Saturday, after attacking patrons at a nearby tavern. The gang entered the tavern just after 1am and robbed patrons of cellphones and money. They then shot eight victims. The injured, aged between 20 and 50, were rushed to hospital, said provincial police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele.Minutes later, the gang broke into Mzila s home. The suspects fatally shot three family members and injured one. The injured victim was taken to hospital and later died. During a shoot-out with police, a suspect was killed and a 9mm pistol was found next to him,&quot; she said. On Tuesday, police officers from the Provincial Task Team arrested a 25-year-old suspect in N-section uMlazi. uMlazi residents torched three houses believed to belong to the suspects. The mob were dispersed by police. Transport, Community Safety and Liaison MEC Mxolisi Kaunda called on residents to remain calm. We understand their frustration and that is why the government is increasing the deployment of the police, he said. He said the department intended holding a community meeting to discuss how to claim back the streets from criminals . Speaking at his home on Tuesday, Mzila could not understand the motive for the senseless act and blamed the drug problem in his community. When you rob somebody of their belongings, what more do you want from them? What do you have to kill them for? Mzila asked. He said the gang aimed for their victims' heads when shooting, &quot;which means the intention was to kill . Mzila s relative, Thulani Mchunu, said the Mzila family were God-fearing people. This is very hard to accept. The children haven t eaten since this happened. Mchunu said the family wanted to hold the funeral in Empangeni but needed help with the planning and payment.eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede and Social Development MEC Weziwe Thusi visited them on Tuesday and echoed Kaunda s call for the community not to take the law into their own hands. He urged them to work with police to identify drug hot spots. Thusi said Health MEC Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo was asked to speed up the post-mortems so the victims could be buried. Cape Argus