Cape Town Death, beatings and stabbings should not be a part of school, but for many Cape pupils playground violence is a reality. In recent weeks, the Western Cape government, as part of the safe schools programme, has had to provide counselling at four schools. A Grade 10 Bridgetown High School pupil, 15, appeared in Athlone Magistrate s Court on Thursday on a charge of murder after he allegedly stabbed his classmate Lwando Masobe, 17, of Langa, in the chest. Masobe died immediately, police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said. It is alleged the accused stabbed Lwando following an argument about payment of money to him. He later fled the scene. Last Thursday, 13-year-old Corne Geyer sustained serious facial injuries after being beaten up by a Grade 7 pupil at his Parow West Primary school. Geyer underwent surgery this week. On February 15, an 18-year-old Kwamfundo High School, Khayelitsha, pupil died in hospital after he was stabbed and beaten by youths. And early last month, a Grade 12 Lentegeur High School pupil was arrested for allegedly stabbing three fellow pupils. Western Cape Education Department spokesperson Millicent Merton said they were shocked when alerted to the Bridgetown incident. This senseless death is deeply tragic. Our thoughts are with Lwando s family. Merton said a school psychologist and social worker from their Metro Central district office visited the school on Wednesday to provide trauma counselling. Our Youth at Risk model makes provision for support in schools, including the early identification of pupils who show signs of aggressive behaviour or are part of a gang and special developmental programmes to assist pupils at risk. Schools deal with disciplinary issues in terms of their code of conduct, which provides for an orderly environment for the delivery of quality teaching and learning by promoting the rights and safety of all pupils, teachers and parents. Merton said the Safe Schools programme includes crime control, prevention, tolerance and behaviour and partnership building between communities, the government and other key players to effectively eradicate crime from the school environment.Cape Argus