Cape Town Standing on the side of the road for hours at a time, often in hot, windy conditions, carrying their tools with them as they scramble towards cars that have slowed down, jostling and scrummaging against scores of other labourers, artisans and workers hoping to get work.Among them on Rosmead Avenue in Wynberg are painters, tilers, bricklayers, arborists, gardeners and carpenters.Mistake Mukhai, 41, who came to South Africa from Zimbabwe four years ago has been supporting his family who immigrated to the Cape in 2015. He leaves for Rosmead Avenue at 5am and returns to his Philippi home at 7pm. Getting picked was tough, because the competition is so high. You must be the first one to speak to the boss or client. Whenever a driver (is calling), you just run! Having tools was an advantage, because sometimes employers would deduct from their daily wages if tools need to be rented, he said. Costa Ndega, 31, an artisan from Zimbabwe, said when the cars arrive, it s first come, first served .He drives to Wynberg every day and always has his equipment. Jobs are scarce. It s difficult to get jobs, sometimes not working two or three days a week. He said the men choose Rosmead Avenue because it is relatively safe. Most people, they come here, people from Philippi, from everywhere. They come and get a market here. It s safe, it s not like a hot spot. Painter Rainy Sihbotho, 43, travels great distances daily to support his wife and two children. It s very far, man, because I m from Gugulethu. So I m taking a train everyday to come here. It s R10 every day, sometimes I m not getting a job, sometimes you get a job.&quot; If I am getting a job it s R200 a day. Some people pay you R150 you know, it goes like that. Instead of running towards cars that stop, he waits for people to approach him. I m not running to the car if I m standing here they stop and talk to me. The scores of men waiting for work are indicative of a bigger problem, said Cape Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Janine Myburgh.&quot; The first thing that strikes me about them is that this is unemployment made visible. They wave paint brushes or garden rakes to advertise their skills. It s a tiny part of a much bigger problem. We have to understand this and find practical ways to help them. Idealistic legislation does not put bread on the table. Cosatu Western Cape secretary Tony Ehrenreich said the labourers and artisans should be protected and secure decent work at decent rates . The workers who wait along the road for work are desperate for jobs. These workers are often exploited as the labour laws are not applied to them. However, Labour law attorney Grant Wilkinson said there are laws to protect the rights of these labourers. There are a wide spectrum of laws covering these individuals including the Basic Conditions of Employment Act and the Labour Relations Act. While they fall under the informal market, it does not preclude them from protection. Wilkinson said the informal sector is not ignored and these labourers receive worldwide attention from structures like the Informal Workers Study Group, XXII World Congress, International Society for Labour and Social Security Law, taking place in 2018.Cape Argus