A gang shooting in Hanover Park claimed the life of a teenager this week. Zinadene Pelton, 14, was gunned down in the crossfire on Tuesday, police said. Spokesperson Andre Traut said he was shot in the chest close to his home in Donegal Court. He said despite the assailants fleeing on foot, one male suspect aged 20 was being questioned. Brandon Daniels said his son usually travelled to and from school via school transport, but because he had left his shoes at his grandmother’s house at the weekend, he was on foot after going to fetch them. “On his way from fetching his school shoes, the gangs started shooting each other and he was caught in the crossfire.” Zinadene’s cousins rushed him to hospital. He died on the way. “Only one shot took my son’s life.” He said his son loved soccer and being with his friends and even though “children give their parents trouble he was different, he was obedient”. The Grade 8 Groenvlei High School pupil was a fun-loving child who got along with everyone in the community, he said. “After his shooting, the community went out in hunt of the shooters, that is how much they loved him.” His mother, Samantha Daniels, said she had no words to describe her feelings. “He was the eldest brother (with two sisters) and he used to help me with them. I will miss his laughter and his jokes. There was never a dull moment with him, there’s so much I will miss about him,” she said. Chairperson of the Hanover Park Community Policing Forum Ebrahim Abrahams said the shootout was between the Ghettos and the Pitbulls. Abrahams said the CPF was doing all it could to stop the gang violence in the area and was working with the police. “A lot of these gangsters are unemployed. They have a lot of time on their hands because they have nothing to do and are left with no choice but to join gangs.” He said the police were doing all they could but because they were under-resourced, there was not much police visibility in the area. In another incident at an Eerste River school, Traut said circumstances surrounding the murder of a 19-year-old male pupil were being investigated. He was stabbed to death. “Kindly be advised that three suspects aged 15 and 16 have been arrested in connection with the fatal stabbing incident at the school in Eerste River,” he said. Jessica Shelver, spokesperson for Education MEC Debbie Schäfer, said the Grade 11 pupil, Zydren Raymond, died after being stabbed in the neck on Tuesday. “According to our information, the stabbing occurred during an altercation between Zydren and a group of other learners behind the school hall. The school alerted the ambulance services, the police and our Safe Schools Call Centre.”