Cape Town If you're going to the second Cape Argus SportShow, you needn t worry that there won t be enough for the kids to do.The three-day sporting extravaganza caters to young and old, from weekend warriors to sporting enthusiasts.From March 24 to 26 Sandringham will host the three-day sporting showcase that includes live performances, sporting celebs, clinics, exhibitors and games.According to event organiser Stephan Jooste the Cape Argus SportShow promises fun for the entire family. Too many sporting events exclude moms and dads and daughters. But the SportShow is wholly inclusive, and pleases casual fans and hardcore fanatics alike. We ve made a special effort to cater to every sport lover s game of choice, said Jooste.Clinics and seminars will help players hone their game, while the Gary Kirsten Cricket Academy will also take part this year to share valuable tips for aspiring cricketers. The event will also include action sports, a tag rugby and paint ball tournament where the Western Cape Provincial Cup will be contested. There is a freestyle stunt arena, and South African free diver Hanli Prinsloo will demonstrate the tips for holding one s breath underwater. South Africans live and breathe sport and it s fantastic to be able to put together an event that champions the fun of competition. Whether you re after the craft beer and grub or want to get active, there s something for everyone, Jooste said. Cape Argus editor Aziz Hartley is equally excited and proud to be involved with the event, which is expected to attract about 20 000 people over the three days. We are excited to be associated with the Cape Argus SportShow. The paper is about the people and we call on our readers and subscribers to come out for this year s show which promises to be a cracker of an event.&quot; We want to thank all those participating and giving Capetonians a good return on their money, Hartley said.Tickets for the event are available at the SportShow site (www.sportshow.co.za) as well as at Computicket. Gates are open between 9am and 6pm throughout the weekend. Tickets cost R150 (adults), R80 (children) and R200 for a weekend pass. Kids under 3 enter free. Cape Argus