Two people have been killed in Delft in two days following a second fatal shooting on Tuesday morning, sparking fears of a brewing taxi war. Police spokesperson Andre Traut said at 5.20am on Tuesday a 46-year-old taxi driver was fatally wounded in Symphony Way in Luzuko Park, by an unknown suspect who is yet to be arrested. He said the circumstances are under investigation. Cape Amalgamated Taxi Association (Cata) acting chairperson Nqazeleni Matayitayi said: "We are deeply concerned about what is going on because people are losing their lives." He said the association would meet to discuss the killings and try to come up with a solution. Matayitayi said the association was being targeted but they would stick to their message of non-violence and would not react violently. On Monday morning a 40-year-old driver was shot dead at the Delft taxi rank. No arrests have yet been made. Matayitayi said there was another shooting last Friday when a team of taxi operators mandated to investigate non-licensed minibus taxis operating on the Delft routes approached a suspicious taxi. The driver opened fire while fleeing, shooting a man in the arm. Two weeks ago, he said, legal operators at the rank noticed a group of taxis not licensed to operate at the rank or use the association-owned routes. Delft taxi rank is run by three associations that have divided the routes among them. “When the drivers arrived to pick up commuters they noticed taxis that did not belong to the three associations registered for Delft. We then decided that there was a need to investigate who are these people,” said Matayitayi. The group tasked to investigate approached one of the illegal operators at the rank on Friday, he said. “The man was armed. He tried to flee and as the investigators got closer to him he fired shots at them, injuring one taxi driver.” Matayitayi said a similar incident occurred a year ago when 75 illegal taxi operators tried to take over the rank. “It was becoming a war and because we were concerned about the safety of our passengers the Cata and Congress of Democratic Taxi Association (Codeta) agreed to let the illegal operators join in and share the routes with them,” he said. Matayitayi said he suspected the same thing was happening now, but said he had to investigate whether yesterday’s shooting was linked to the illegal taxi operation. Blue Downs Community Policing Forum chairperson Reginald Maart said he believed yesterday's murder could be related to increased gang activity. “There was a shooting incident on Friday between taxi drivers in Delft, but at this stage we don’t know if the latest shooting is related to it,” Maart said. The provincial department of transport said it was aware of the situation in Delft. Siphesihle Dube, spokesperson for Transport MEC Donald Grant, said the department would work with police to bring those responsible for the violence to justice. Dube said the promotion of safe operations in the minibus taxi industry was a priority and was controlled using effective industry regulation, as required by the National Land Transport Act.