Cape Town - The boots of Stormers captain Siya Kolisi fetched a hefty sum of R100 000 at a gala dinner and auction to raise funds for the WP Rugby Union Hubs Development Programme. The event took place at the Cape Sun Hotel, where more than R800 000 was raised. Several DHL Stormers players waited tables, took pictures and entertained guests as part of the charity event. When the hammer fell for the final bid for Kolisi’s boots, it had guests roaring with appreciation. Guests also forked out R20 000 for a signed Stormers home jersey and one patron bid R8 000 for centre Juan de Jongh’s boots, and then donated them to one of the Hub’s children. Faizel Fulton, the senior manager for Western Province Rugby, said the programme strove to instil ethics that rugby promoted. “We’ve got 93 schools on the programme that links a primary school, a high school and a club. It’s about the upliftment of a community,” he said. Fulton said the idea was about providing access to sport for children with the training of coaches in underprivileged areas. “We focus on coaches and administrators. We have a young girl who, through the Hubs programme, has taken up refereeing. She’s on the provincial panel. She’s one of the top referees in women’s rugby.” One of the children who played for Western Province Under-12, Yolisa Kasi, from Sobambisana Primary in Khayelitsha, was thrilled that his favourite player, Kolisi, was at the event. “I like the position he plays and he plays it great. The coach must not switch him… He plays that position good and he can pass the ball like me,” he said.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Kasi said that this programme gave him the chance to play the sport that he had come to love. “It builds confidence. It is fun and I feel happy.” Another player in the Hubs programme, Yolisa Mbombela, 14, from Liwa Primary in Nyanga, also loves rugby. “I play hooker and eighth man. We play against schools in my community,” he said. He feels happy to play a match on Saturdays organised by the coaches from Hubs. Mbombela wants to play for the Stormers one day and said although he was bullied at school, rugby had become a positive outlet. “Someone broke my arm and I was very angry. I wanted to get revenge. Rugby has given me more confidence to stay positive,” he said. Kolisi said that as a pupil he couldn’t afford school fees, but a teacher paid for him. “I remember the first rugby trials. I was playing with, you know those old silky boxers because I didn’t have a shorts, and the guys couldn’t grab me,” he laughed. He said it was programmes like Hubs that gave children the opportunity to escape from negative influences in the township. Kolisi said he was always trying to give back to the community because he came from tough circumstances himself. “My dream is to have Hubs trainers come into the township and allow children from the township to play each other and other schools,” he said. Cape Argus