Cape Town - Residents of Avian Park and Riverview in Worcester took to the streets in protest demanding an end to the continuing gang violence, which they say has been terrorising the community for too long. Tyres were burnt and traffic delayed on Tuesday as residents conveyed their dismay over two murders in as many days. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel André Traut confirmed that a 24-year-old man had been arrested for murder after a 20-year-old man was shot at a Riverview block of flats on Sunday. A video of the shooting, shared widely on social media, showed a community in the throes of panic, fleeing from the shots being fired. On Tuesday morning a 17-year-old man was shot at Avian Park. Traut said police were investigating the latest murder as well. Following the shooting, residents took to the streets in protest. Police were monitoring the violence and protest action in the area, Traut said. WARNING: The video below contains strong language and graphic scenes of injury or death.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. One resident, Felicia Cloete, said: “A 17-year-old was shot at 7.10am and another was stabbed to death at 10.30am. He was arguing with someone. After that the people decided to march here in Avian Park.” Traut, however, reiterated that there had been only one murder reported at Avian Park. “There were tyres burning in the street this morning. And it was still burning. There was also some shooting," Cloete said. “The police were just standing around on the corner. They’re still there. All the people from the blocks will march again now that it is quieter.” A resident, who did not want to be named, said pot shots had been taken at the police but caused no damage and there had been some looting at the shops of “foreigners” in the area. He described the residents’ actions at Avian Park as “vigilantism”. In a separate incident in Worcester, SA National Civic Organisation Western Cape spokesperson Bongikhaya Qhama reported that members of a farming community in the area were protesting after a farmworker was killed in an incident on the farm where he was employed. “The community will continue to protest until the farmer assists with burial costs. “It is only reasonable to expect that he does so, that he respects the workers’ rights and treats them with the dignity,” said Qhama. In Paarl, police confirmed they were investigating a fight which occurred at a farm on Monday. A farm manager was allegedly attacked by armed workers who had not been paid last week. The manager was taken to hospital before the police arrived and his condition has yet to be confirmed, Traut said. Cape Argus