The summit will be an exciting opportunity to get involved and for all stakeholders within the schools’ sports landscape to discuss pressing issues. The line-up for the event will include many sporting professionals within the industry who will provide information into scientific and practical best-practice models. “The Schools Sport Summit is about informing parents and educators on the benefits of sport and physical education for kids,” said Justin Durandt, manager for education and training at the Sports Science Institute. “In the last 10 years in SA  there have been less and less schools offering physical education, seemingly due to a competition for resources. What we are doing is taking schools from high income areas and previously disadvantaged areas and looking for champions. “We have a school from a lower income area in Hout Bay and they have done an excellent job with the little resources that they have,” said Durandt. The SSISA Schools Sport Summit  at the Cape Argus SportShow will have sessions looking at a variety of topics such as “Should school sport be compulsory?” and will also include talks from Paddy Upton and a former Springbok rugby captain. “We also have Jean de Villiers who is coming to share what role school sports played in his life and representatives from SA  Rugby and SA Cricket, along with international representatives coming in to talk about injuries and how they are handled.” Durandt said that it would be a wonderful opportunity for people to learn. “They should look forward to schools that are making sports and physical education work. “In SA  we are not good at sharing, so this is a great opportunity for everyone to come and learn and participate in these discussions,” said Durandt. There are limited seats available for the show and people can register to attend on the Sport Science Institute website which also has ticket prices. Tickets for the Cape Argus SportShow are available on the website as well as at Computicket. Gates are open 9am-6pm throughout the weekend. Entrance cost is R150 (adults), R80 (children) and R200 for a weekend pass. Toddlers under 3 enter free. Cape Argus