Cape Town – The crime scenes of the killing of the Gugulethu Seven and the Community House bombing were "swept" by apartheid-era police, former ANC intelligence operative Major-General Andre Lincoln testified at the Western Cape High Court on Wednesday. Lincoln has been on the stand since Monday in his R15 million lawsuit against the then ministers of Safety and Security; and Justice and Constitutional Development. He is seeking relief from what he calls “malicious prosecution” for 47 counts of fraud, theft and drunk driving. He was convicted and sentenced on 17 of the charges but on appeal to the High Court, was acquitted. He told the court that the reason why he was prosecuted was because of what he knew about the activities of the apartheid Narcotics Bureau and the Murder and Robbery Unit. The Gugulethu Seven were Umkhonto Wesizwe operatives who were gunned down by apartheid police in March 1986. Lincoln testified that Leonard Knipe, a former police director was involved in the crime scene. He also testified that when Community House, a building which housed activist organisations was bombed in 1997, again Knipe was involved. Lincoln said he was pursued because he had infiltrated the security branch of the South African Defence Force and had 5 of its members reporting their activities to him. In 1996, former president Nelson Mandela appointed Lincoln to head a Presidential Investigations Task Unit to investigate links between the police and criminal underworld bosses in the Western Cape. He told the court the PITU was opposed by top SAPS members and that there was interference with his work. Although he had complained on several occasions to then police Commissioner George Fivaz, the interference and blocking of investigations continued. The court heard that among investigations the PITU had uncovered was a plot to assassinate Mandela during his inauguration in 1994. The rifle meant to shoot the then president was custom-made for the task. PITU also unveiled counterfeit US Dollar printing which operated in the SAPS headquarters in Pretoria, Lincoln said. These and many other investigations were blocked by top ranking SAPS members who in turn pursued Lincoln, the court heard. The defendants’ legal team is expected to start cross examining Lincoln on Thursday.  noloyiso.mtembu@inl.co.za  Cape Argus