There were more police officers and vehicles than drivers and minibuses at the Delft taxi rank on Wednesday following shootings that have left at least two taxi drivers dead. There have been four shootings since last Friday, two of them fatal. Speculation is rife among the three taxi associations that run the Delft routes and manage the rank. There were also suggestions they were the result of operators not licensed to use the Delft routes trying to muscle their way into the area. Delft Taxi Association’s (DTA) Lunga Mzembe blamed the Cape Amalgamated Taxi Association (Cata) for operating on routes that it shouldn’t. He said Cata was also not operating according to its permits. Mzembe said as a result of the killings, working conditions “are not good at all because there is a lot of tension among the drivers at the taxi rank”. He said their members on the Delft-Cape Town and long-distance routes were being intimidated by Cata. However, Cata chairperson Victor Wiwi said none of the allegations by DTA were true. “We have a right to be in Delft because we have the right paperwork,” said Wiwi. He said its taxis were not in Delft yesterday because the DTA was chasing them out of the area. Wiwi said the association did not want to be involved in any violence which is why they decided to withdraw from operations “until the issue is sorted”. He said they were engaging with the authorities to help come up with solutions. Siphesihle Dube, spokesperson for Transport MEC Donald Grant, said the promotion of safe and peaceful operations in the minibus taxi industry was a priority for the department. He said this was done through the “effective regulation of the industry, as required by the National Land Transport Act (NLTA)”. “In some instances, violent conflicts do arise between members of the minibus taxi industry. “When this happens, the Department of Transport and Public Works, together with all other stakeholders, will do all that is in its power to restore and maintain peace. “Interventions by the department have also included mediation, as well as the institution of remedial actions when conditions to operating licences are not adhered to, as per the NLTA,” said Dube.