Cape Town The Cape Argus Sport Show is back and it promises to be a weekend of fun for all involved. From March 24 to 26, Sandringham will host the three-day sporting showcase that includes live performances, sporting celebrities, clinics, exhibitors and games for young and old.The event has a variety of thrilling and informative activities aimed at all levels of sport enthusiasts. There ll be tag rugby, cricket, golf, netball, paintball, watersports, BMX biking, obstacle courses and even drone racing.According to event organiser Stephan Jooste, the Cape Argus Sport Show promises fun for the entire family. Too many sporting events exclude moms and dads and daughters, says Jooste. But the Sport Show is wholly inclusive, and pleases casual fans and hard-core sports fanatics alike.&quot; We ve made a special effort to cater to every sport lover s game of choice. Clinics and seminars will help players hone their game, while the Gary Kirsten Cricket Academy will also take part this year to share valuable tips for aspiring cricketers. The event will also included action sports, a tag rugby and paintball tournament where the Western Cape Provincial Cup will be contested. The freestyle stunt arena will be on show, while South African free-diver Hanli Prinsloo will demonstrate how to hold your breath under water. South Africans live and breathe sport and it s fantastic to be able to put together an event that champions the fun of competition, Jooste added. Whether you re after the craft beer and grub or want to get active, there s something for everyone. Cape Argus editor Aziz Hartley is equally excited and proud to be involved with the event, which is expected to draw about 20 000 people over the three days. We are excited to be associated with the Cape Argus Sport Show, Hartley said. The paper is about the people, and we call on our readers and subscribers to come out for this year s show which promises to be a cracker of an event.&quot; We want to thank all those participating and giving Capetonians a good return on their money. Tickets for the event are available at www.sportshow.co.za as well as at Computicket. Gates are open at 9am. Entrance cost R150 (adults), R80 (children) and R200 for a weekend pass. Toddlers under-3 enter free. Cape Argus