The little I know about CPR might just kill anybody I assist. I remembered “recovery position”. He managed that and kept still. Next, I ran up and down Queen Victoria Road seeking help. A CCID officer was at hand. We ran back to my friend and then I called 1023. (Yes, I am so aware it is not the correct number!) Within 10 minutes an ambulance arrived. I just stood there. Surprised? One hears stories about people waiting for hours for an ambulance. Well, it arrived. They did what needed to be done and rushed him over to Somerset Hospital. Not for one moment did they treat him with disrespect or like a second-class citizen as a homeless guy. The lady (nurse) was very kind, gentle and explained what she was doing, to keep him informed. Don’t you just love a happy ending? Sunday morning was peaceful. I was woken up by the sound of birds singing. To me the most beautiful sound one can get. The best things in life cannot be bought. As I walked over to the Cape Argus office, I saw a young guy scratching inside a dustbin. Looking for food. People, I started to cry. It got to me. Why? Why in the best city in the world (we got the award to show it) do we have this? Rumour has it that the city council plans to replace the old dustbins with ones that can not be dug into. Do they really think it will stop a stroller, looking for recyclables? You’re joking, right? I went over and spoke to him, (and no, he is not on drugs, or a gangster or a fugitive). He just made the wrong business decision and lost everything he had. We shared a coffee and cigarette and off he went to the Service Dining Rooms where they prepare lunch (thank you Central Methodist Church) for the homeless. The Cape drought is officially a disaster. It is said that within the next 121 days we will have - so to speak - no water. An old homeless lady, while chatting to her about this catastrophe, looked at me and said “karma”. They’re treating the poor and needy like dirt. They kick old people out of their homes and dump them in rubbish areas. “Karma... ” I had nothing to say on this one and changed the subject. We had, as a nation a great loss recently: The death of Judge Essa Moosa. Loved and respected by all. A gentle man who worked tirelessly for the poor and oppressed. One can learn from his dedication to others and working towards a better society for all. As Capetonians we have serious challenges we will have to face over the next few months. Water is one of them. Together we will weather this storm. Cape Argus