Robbie Fleck’s matchday 23 doesn’t resemble the team that beat the Kings in Port Elizabeth two weeks ago as a number of key players are unavailable due to injuries and the Springbok management plan. But the current situation, similar to the one the Stormers experienced during their 2016 trip to Singapore has, of course, opened the game-time door to a few new faces while the regulars are absent. And Senatla will be one of those looking to have a good go at the National Stadium when the World Sevens Player of the Year runs out at left wing in the place of Dillyn Leyds, who moves to his preferred No 15 position. Fleck, pictured, is excited to see what the holder of the all-time Blitzbok try-scoring record can do, but he’s also said that Senatla can’t create “magic” if the rest of the team don’t get the ball to him. That situation shouldn’t be as big a problem as it was in previous seasons, with the Stormers having shown in recent weeks that they can take the ball through the hands effectively when they do get it right. “I think the guys have to be patient if he doesn’t get any ball. You can’t expect miracles from the guy if he doesn’t. We all know what a quality rugby player he is, but in Fifteens there’s obviously not as much space as in Sevens,” Fleck said. “But if he gets the ball and he has a bit of space, he’s going to be devastating. So that’s what we expect from him. It’s up to us to create that space. All 14 players have to do something for him to get that magic out. If we do our job correctly and if we create space for him and give him good opportunities with ball in hand or to chase kicks or whatever the case may be, then we’ll see the special Seabelo.” The Stormers will also have a new vice-captain in Leyds as Eben Etzebeth is being rested. Leyds has been instrumental for the Stormers so far with massive performances out wide, and he’s looked like a player full of confidence since returning from a lengthy injury that kept him out for most of last year. And it’s his versatility that makes him an even bigger asset. “We did a trial run with him as captain against SWD and he was outstanding, both in terms of his play and his leadership. He’s playing a critical role in a very young backline at the moment. He’s been outstanding on the left wing, he’s come back from a big injury and he’s just got those silky skills,” he said. In the last change to the backline Dan Kriel is back to full fitness and will partner EW Viljoen in midfield, while Dan du Plessis should bring some impact off the bench. Up front, skipper Siya Kolisi is back at No 7 after being rested against the Kings, and Chris van Zyl and JD Schickerling will stand in for the powerful duo of Etzebeth and Pieter-Steph du Toit in the second row. Young Wilco Louw, an impressive scrummager, is back in the starting line-up along with JC Janse van Rensburg, to pack down on either side of hooker Bongi Mbonambi.  Stormers starting XV: Dillyn Leyds, Bjorn Basson, EW Viljoen, Dan Kriel, Seabelo Senatla, Robert du Preez, Dewaldt Duvenage, Sikhumbuzo Notshe, Siya Kolisi (capt), Rynhardt Elstadt, JD Schickerling, Chris van Zyl, Wilco Louw, Bongi Mbonambi, JC Janse van Rensburg; Replacements: Ramone Samuels, Caylib Oosthuizen, Oli Kebble, Jan de Klerk, Cobus Wiese, Godlen Masimla, Kurt Coleman, Dan du Plessis. Cape Argus