Mosimane, who had a major influence in Manyama cracking it in the elite league during his amateur days back at Alexandra FC (an SAB League side), said having the attack-minded player in his side would be bonus for him. Manyama was named the Player of the Month for February on Wednesday at the PSL headquarters in Parktown, his third such award this season, while Mosimane walked away with the Coach of the Month accolade. "Why not," Mosimane said. "Manyama is a very good player. When I first saw him (during Manyama's amateur days) I said to myself that this player has what it takes to play in the PSL. I  contacted Ajax Cape Town through his agent Maimane Phiri to have the player signed. I spoke to the likes of coach Foppe de Haan and John Comitis about giving him a chance. "Today I'm humbled that we can talk about where it all started for him, now that he is winning all of these awards. "It would be nice to have him at Sundowns. But for now, he still belongs to another club." Mosimane added that he would give anything to have the player playing for his side. "When Sundowns wants a player, we go out there to get that player," he said. "The only time we don't get a player is when that player costs R10 million, which is equivalent to the PSL title prize money. "It took us two years to sign a player like Sibusiso Vilakazi (from Wits). I don't think I want to go through that again. It's tiring. But both sides must sit down together (and agree on terms). I know that Eric (Tinkler) won't be happy losing one of his valuable players. John Comitis won't also be happy (either). But you never know, we'll have to wait and see." Manyama said he was flattered by Mosimane's remarks, adding that he would continue with his attitude of playing his heart out, should any opportunity arise for him to join the Chloorkop side. "We'll have to wait and see what happens but my focus now is with City until the end of this season," Manyama said. "It doesn't matter where I get to play but what's key is adjusting to that new environment, each time I earn a move." Cape Argus