The fire in Dontse-Yakhe Section destroyed about 3500 homes, and left a family of three dead. In the ensuing 72 hours after the blaze was extinguished, Capetonians dropped off donations of food, clothing and other items to those who had lost everything. On Monday night before the light faded, convoys of volunteers were still doing the rounds to provide food and water packs to residents who had begun rebuilding their homes on the site, which had not yet been fully cleared of the burnt debris. “The Imizamo Yethu disaster relief has been the biggest one yet, but we need so much more. Packaging, boxes, masking tape,” said Thula Thula co-ordinator Jo-Anne Chemaly. She said all displaced people had registered for relief aid and would be provided with building kits consisting of corrugated zinc sheets, a door, a window and poles. Read: 10 die in raging shack fires in Cape Humanitarian crisis after Imizamo Yethu fire As the public and corporates dropped off goods at the Thula Thula base at the Ambleside Primary School hall, it was being sorted into packages and boxes, Chemaly said. “These daylight hours are important for us to get vitally needed supplies to the people. When light fades it is dark up there. “On some of the runs, the volunteers could not get through to the people, so they abandoned their vehicles and hiked up the mountain, carrying supplies in backpacks,” said Martine du Preez, a relief volunteer from Hout Bay. Acting mayor Ian Nielsen said the fire was the worst ever experienced in Cape Town. “City officials, as well as the Red Cross, have remained on site and in the area to provide 24-hour relief and comfort. “Residents have been offered temporary relief accommodation in community halls in the area, and a temporary marquee has been erected at the request of the affected residents to house their belongings,” said Nielsen. Everything was being done to ensure that all residents received their building kits as soon as possible, while water and electricity services were in the process of being reinstated, he said. The city planned to “establish several large-scale re-blocked areas that will be surrounded by fire breaks, pedestrian walkways and peripheral water, sanitation and electricity services,” Nielsen added. Cape Argus