Cape Town - Estate agency Dick and Sue Home Finders have launched an investigation after the company faced intense scrutiny following the Only Whites Please rental ad that was posted to Private Property. The advert identified the rental as a 3 Bedroom Townhouse available in La Montagne going for R9800. It listed everything the Pretoria rental had on offer and also included specifications that the rental was available for only whites please and that no pets were allowed. The company released a statement that they were dismayed by the recent comments regarding the accusations of racism linked to their business. We are currently investigating the matter and will, in due course and in the appropriate forum, deal with the issues, after obtaining advice from various experts. Any disclosure of further information may prejudice the investigation, said spokesperson Joleen Stapelberg. For the time being and pending the finalisation of the investigation, which includes possible sabotage of our software and/or online presence, the agency would like to reaffirm unequivocally that it distances itself from any form of racism. We will not hesitate to take the necessary legal steps against any person or instance, directly or indirectly, for prejudicing our business. We encourage any member of the public that can assist with this investigation to bring any relevant information to our attention. The originally listing was posted to Private Property where it was discovered, but the property site removed it saying they do not condone the listing.Sihle Dlamlenze, who originally saw the post on Private Property, took to Facebook where she posted on Dick and Sue Home Finders page about the rental. Wowso Eliza Scheun is selling property to whites only. Must be nice being racist in in (sic) country, you just get away with a lot hey. Dick and Sue Home Finders had then responded by apologising to her and that it is actually the owner of the property who wants it that way. We are only respecting the owner s wishes. We are sorry if it comes across as racim (sic.) So please, don t be angry at Eliza or our firm we hope you have a lovely day. Cape Argus