It was at this hospital where, in 1967, Dr Chris Barnard and his team made history by performing the first human-to-human heart transplant in 
the world. There is a museum and I find it amazing how medical technology has advanced over the years. Apart from a misunderstanding about some of my medication, my stay is pleasant. I have been looked after by some of the best doctors and professors in the field. I am truly blessed. I have two doctors and a professor working very hard to put me on the road to recovery. Dr Boloko was the first doctor working on my case. I joke that he must be a vampire as he always pulls blood. Then there is Dr Gill and Professor Spearman. I love Prof to bits. She is such a gentle soul. They have the world of patience and answer all my questions without getting annoyed or irritated. I had to go for a liver biopsy and was stressed about it. Spearman explained it to me in great detail. Two days later Dr Smith did the biopsy. People, I felt nothing. The whole thing was over in less than 20 minutes. Prof arranged for a social worker to come see me so we could work on an exit plan before I leave the hospital. Another remarkable thing was the quality of the food. It is fresh. The rice white and fluffy. The stew has chunks of chicken or beef in it. The fish is firm 
and juicy. However, they use no salt, pepper or any form of spices, so it is bland, if you want to call it that. The solution to this little problem was easy to fix - bring your own salt and pepper. I am in Ward G12. The nurses are my true heroes. Working 12-hour shifts is no joke. But they manage to smile, be supportive and keep us comfortable as best they can. There is never a quiet moment. Some of the sisters work till 7pm and, at times, it takes up to three hours to get home. Go figure! Not much quality family time. Talking about family: I met some homeless people in the hospital who were receiving treatment and so on. We must be honest and admit we are looked after well. Some of us are scared of injections, pulling blood and so on, so we can perform at times and be a little rude. But the medical staff are so well trained that they fully understand. Many of us had to go back afterwards with a sincere “I am sorry”. I am inspired by the humanity I see here every day. The commitment to relieve another from pain. The positive interaction between caregiver and patient. Even the grumpiest, rudest patient come to their senses. Our nurses the true salt of this Earth!  dannny.oosthuizen@inl.co.za  * Danny Oosthuizen, #TheDignityProject ambassador, in his weekly daily column for the Cape Argus tackles the struggles homeless people face. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. CAPE ARGUS