Cape Town - Police are investigating a case of attempted murder after Damian Thomas, 18, was left badly injured in what is believed to be an acid attack on Friday night. The Goodwood teen was out with friends in Cape Town's CBD when he and a friend decided to catch a cab ride home. The cab they hailed was an unmarked white metered taxi. "He left Space Bar and he walked across the road to the restaurant Food Inn and he stood on the corner and then he approached the cab," his mother, Lynne Thomas told the Cape Argus. "He knocked on the window and he asked the driver how much it would be to Goodwood and the driver told him R170. When Damian got into the cab, his mom said, the driver threw what Damian thought to be hot liquid in his face. "He said it was very hot and it was so painful that he fell out of the cab and he sat on the pavement," his mother said. Damian and a friend then took another cab home. Thomas said that while she was asleep that night she heard Damian screaming outside their home. "He screamed 'mommy' twice and I jumped up and I opened the front door and he was standing with his eyes swollen and his skin was bubbling and it was developing bubbles on top of bubbles," she said. They then rushed him to Karl Bremer Hospital where doctors had confirmed that he had had acid thrown into his face. Thomas said that her son was still in severe pain. "His face is still very swollen. The doctors said that he has a cut that goes right through his ear as a result from the acid. He also can’t really eat that much because he digested some of the acid that went on his face," she said. "I am very  angry because it seems as if there is nowhere safe for our youngsters to go out and enjoy themselves without being injured for no apparent reason," Thomas said. "I definitely want justice because he is only 18 and he is now going to be scarred for life. We don’t know if his ear is ever going to heal properly. Every morning when he looks in the mirror it's going to a constant reminder of what happened," Thomas said. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said a case had been opened. "Cape Town Central police are investigating an attempted murder case after an incident. No-one has been arrested as yet. Anyone who has more information that can assist with the investigation is requested to contact Cape Town Central Police Detective Warrant Officer Bardien cell on 073 220 0653."  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus