Workers on one farm have downed tools and others are locked in tough negotiations on wages and working conditions. Robertson Winery is at loggerheads with farm workers union the Commercial, Stevedoring, Agricultural and Allied Workers union (CSAAWU). The two have been in negotiations for months but failed to agree on 11 outstanding points. Secretary-general of the union, Trevor Christians, said it had agreed to extend the negotiations for another 30 days. Among the key points that parties cannot agree on are for its housing allowance to be extended to all its workers, transport for workers, a single “clock-in” system and long service bonuses changed from 10 years at the company to five years. “Workers feel extremely frustrated and the situation is extremely tense. “Workers feel their is no equality. The structures still remain the same, we still have whites in charge and no equal opportunities provided for the workers.” Human resources manager and risk officer at Robertson Winery Reinette Jordaan said the conciliation process is under way along with the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration. According to Jordaan, there are two matters under discussion but they cannot be discussed as the issues are sub judice. In Stellenbosch, the Leeuwenkuil Family Vineyard workers downed tools on Tuesday over wage disputes. According to the National Union of Food Beverage Wine Spirits and Allied Workers (NUFBWSAW), they are being paid below the minimum wage - R650 per week. “Workers have been asking for an increase and the managers of the farm dismissed the workers request,” spokesperson Leonard Makhasi said. The workers are demanding reliable work transport, and an end to racial segregation. According to the union, black employees earn less than white and coloured employees. The workers have also tabled a 10% wage increase. Managing director of Leeuwenkuil Kobus de Kock said workers will have to decide whether they want to return to work or not. He also disputed the claims made by Makhasi that workers earn R650 per week. “That is not true. The lowest-paid member earns around R3 217.29 per month, which excludes bonuses.” De Kock said the company is open to negotiations but would not be doing it through the media. Cosatu Western Cape secretary Tony Ehrenreich said the struggles of farmworkers remained huge. “We firmly believe that they should get 50% shares in the business,” Ehrenreich said. Building and Allied Workers Union of SA general-secretary, Nosey Pieterse, said he was inundated with calls from farmworkers. “It’s not just about wages; the issue goes much deeper. It’s an issue about system change and a change in our legislations,” Pieterse said. He said a strike could have dire consequences. “The problem is that society relies on the farm- workers to supply goods and services but the workers cannot enjoy those goods and services because they cannot afford it,” he said. Beverely Schaffer, chairperson of the standing committee on agriculture and tourism in the provincial legislature, asked for the provincial department to intervene before there was another flare-up as occurred in 2013.  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus