Cape Town - The defence attorney representing Linda Ntula, the man accused of murdering his girlfriend Aviwe Jam Jam, has accused the State of withholding crucial information in the matter. On Tuesday, Ntula appeared for the attempted murder of Jam Jam's stepfather Mike Mguga and a charge of malicious damage to property in the Khayelitsha Magistrates Court. The case was postponed until September 27, 2017 due to the defence lawyer, David Mbazwana, failing to make it in court in time. State Prosecutor Manelisi Macaba requested a remand. He told the court Mbazwana had called to indicate he would be running late, however, the investigating officer would not be able to wait. Questioned on the absence of his lawyer, a soft spoken Ntula said he did not know the lawyer’s whereabouts. The accused was escorted back to the cells amidst grumblings from his family who expressed their disapproval of the lawyer’s absence. Speaking to the Cape Argus Mbazwana said he was delayed because there were a few things he had to tie up regarding the matter. “The focus for the State seems to be on the murder case at the Athlone Magistrate's Court. The State is not forthcoming with information. Whenever I ask for developments I am told I will hear about it in court. I’m working on limited information,” said Mbazwana. The lawyer said it was the State’s responsibility to prove guilt. “If he did it then the State must prove it. My job is no to fish. To me he is innocent so the State must prove his guilt,” he said. Ntula will for the first time appear with his co-accused Leroy Morrison at the Athlone Court Wednesday for Jam Jam’s murder. Jam Jam’s body was discovered in a field in Athlone on July 29. Her family was only informed about her death on August 8. Outside court Mguga said preparations for the unveiling of Jam Jam’s tombstone were under way. He said the ceremony would be held next Saturday in Dimbaza, in the Eastern Cape, where she was buried. "We are all still very traumatised especially her mother and two-year-old son. "We are pleased with how he court case is unravelling and impressed by the detectives' work."  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus