Last week, the owner of Dunn’s Castle Chalets in Piketberg, Lesley van Huyssteen, visited the ANC’s regional office to complain about Snyman and Fallon Arendse, an administrative worker at the ANC’s provincial headquarters, who booked her guesthouse a few days before a by-election in Piketberg’s ward 5 last month. According to sources, she produced an invoice with the number of guests, food, beverages and a final amount, all in Snyman and Arendse’s names. The ANC was in the area canvassing for votes. Sources within the ANC also said Snyman and his 17 other guests left after an eight-day stay without paying and according to the invoice, Snyman and Arendse booked the accommodation, not the provincial ANC. ANC Boland chairman Pat Marran said he was aware of the allegations. “We all met at the regional office to discuss issues and here and there we spoke of where we were sleeping. I slept at a fellow ANC member’s house. They told me they were sleeping at Dunn’s Castle. This has nothing to do with the ANC,” he said. Van Huyssteen could not be reached for comment. “My apologies,” she said in a text message. Lionel Adendorf, provincial spokesperson, said he was not aware of the complaint, but confirmed that the ANC made no payment or request for any accommodation in the Piketberg area. “All volunteers must book their own accommodation,” he said. Billy Claasen, ANC councillor who won the by-election, referred all queries to Snyman and Arendse. Sources say 18 people stayed at the guesthouse, each in their own rooms. The bulk of the R60 000 bill allegedly went on alcohol and food. Efforts to contact Snyman failed. Snyman was charged with misconduct in July 2015 and expelled by the provincial disciplinary committee in October after he had failed to inform the party of his criminal conviction while standing for a leadership position. Snyman pleaded guilty to fraud in January 2014, after submitting a bogus insurance claim for his laptop. He appealed his expulsion, arguing the committee instituted the charge nine months after the offence was committed and outside the three-month prescriptive period set out in the ANC’s constitution, making it invalid. Snyman’s return to office has not been welcomed by all, with some in the Boland regional executive committee releasing a statement outlining how they were compelled to hold a meeting about his return.  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus