Cape Town - Linda Ntula, the boyfriend of 26-year-old mother of one Aviwe Jam Jam who was found murdered in Athlone, Cape Town, in July, has been charged with murder. Ntula made his second appearance at the Khayelitsha Magistrate's Court on Friday. He faced charges of attempted murder and malicious damage to property. While the court hearing was scheduled for a bail application, the State stunned Ntula, his family and his lawyer by adding a charge of murder. Ntula was shocked, but remained calm. His family, occupying the two front rows in the small courtroom whispered in disagreement while Jam Jam’s stepfather, Mike Mguga smirked. Prosecutor Leandre Spielman said: “The accused is charged for the murder of his girlfriend. The murder matter is running and the Director of Public Prosecutions has been informed of the investigation. We request a remand for the matters to be centralised - the murder and attempted murder. “The charges will be centralised and possibly be taken to Athlone Magistrate's Court,” said Spielman. Defence lawyer, David Mbazwana, argued that the State had time to charge the accused as Ntula was at its disposal. “We are here to deal with a bail application and only now the State speaks of a murder charge. “Before provincial police got involved there were remarks that he will be charged with murder. We were sitting and waiting. We don't want a remand for the charge to be added and wait another two weeks,”said Mbazwana. Mbazwana said because the murder charge was lodged three months after the other charges, the charges should not be connected. The case was postponed to September 19. Jam Jam’s body was discovered in a field in Athlone on July 29. Her family was only informed about her death on August 8. She had been beaten to death. She had been living with Ntula in Kuilsriver and had previously sought a protection order against him. On one occasion Ntula allegedly went to her home in Site C to look for her. It is alleged he and friends attacked Mguga leaving him with 12 stitches in the head. In relation to her murder, police arrested Leroy Morrison and he was charged with murder and accessory to the fact. It is believed Morrison was involved in dumping Jam Jam’s body. He will appear again at the Athlone Magistrate's Court with Ntula as his co-accused on September 20. Meanwhile, police are still in search of Zandile Sandlana’s killers. Sandlana was found dead in a field in TR Section in Khayelitsha. She was stripped, only left wearing a bra, and a bottle stuck in her mouth. Sandlana left her home to attend a friend’s party in Site B, but never returned. She leaves behind her two-year-old girl.  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus