Dlamini Zuma was speaking at the ANC Youth League’s 73rd anniversary celebrations at the Zolani Centre in Nyanga on Sunday. Before she spoke, journalists asked her about her move to Parliament. “I am ready to serve wherever the ANC’s sees fit,” was all she said before her bodyguards moved a group of reporters away. Dlamini Zuma spoke little of her campaign to become the ANC’s president. “There is one thing we need to be clear about. Whoever wins in December must lead and embrace everyone. The person who loses must follow,” she said. Read: Cabinet reshuffle on the cards? She reminded the ANCYL that the Struggle was led mostly by young people and they needed to be honoured. “Many young people struggled and died for this country. They made an immense contribution. “We remember and salute Sindiso Magaqa, who was killed by cruel assassins. We remember Steve Biko. We must know that this freedom must be fought for,” she said. Dlamini Zuma told supporters that they should look at society’s needs and act upon on that. “What are the demands of our time. What are we mobilising the youth for? If the leagues (are) strong the ANC will be strong. "Let us unite in action. “Our young people must go to school. "They must have education and skills and complement the skills revolution. Dlamini Zuma also touched on the ANC’s catch phrase “radical economic transformation”. “Our economy must grow and black people must be a part of it. The demands of our time (is) skills, so that young people can drive this country. Black people must drive it and women must be leading. We must solve that paradox of a rich SA and poor SA. The demands is that we can’t continue with two cities in Cape Town.” There is a city which is rich and the other which is poor, she said. Xolani Sotashe, leader of the ANC Dullah Omar region (Cape Metro), said: “We know that there are groups who wanted to disrupt. It can’t be that there are no-go areas in the ANC. We all must be given a chance to campaign wherever we can.” Cape Argus