Cape Town - According to the State’s last witness in the Henri Van Breda triple-murder trial, Rudi van Breda had been dragged or moved after being killed with an axe. Captain Marius Joubert was previously expected to testify but had taken ill forcing the trial to be postponed. However, Captain Joubert was ready to testify on Day 36 as the state’s blood spatter expert on Monday. Joubert wasn’t on the state’s initial witness list, was called to give evidence in court at Defence Advocate Pieter Botha’s request. Previously, Lieutenant-Colonel Sharlene Otto took to the stand to testify about the DNA evidence that was found on the crime scene, but Captain Joubert is focusing on what can be determined when analysis blood spatter. Joubert explained bloodstain pattern analysis can provide info on how crime committed. He explained that the various factors which would play a role in how long it takes blood to dry. Room temperatures and air are all a factor, but typically blood takes 3-15 minutes to clot after a trauma has occurred. Joubert testified that Rudi Van Breda had been dragged or moved after being axed, as blood started to clot before he was moved to the bedroom floor. Blood Spatter Patterns suggests that Rudi was stationary for a period of time for pool of blood to be created, Joubert added. The court also heard how Joubert, testified about the blood stains found on Henri’s shorts, 35 of which he said belonged to Rudi, 9 belonging to Henri, 5 to Martin and 3 were a mixture result which included Teresa, while none was found belonging to Marli. Captain Joubert also testified about how he used the chemical spray, possible blood found on shower door handle, tap, door, wall and floor. It was belonged to Teresa, Rudi and Henri. There were also multiple spatter stains on Henri's white socks, which Joubert explained occured when force was applied to a source, travelled through air and landed on his socks. He said he removed 17 blood stain cuttings from socks - 9 samples which belonged to Rudi, 1 sample belonging to Martin, 1 sample matching Teresa, while 2 samples belonged to Henri. Captain Joubert is expected to testify for the remainder of the week in the Van Breda trial. Henri Van Breda stands accused of the murder of his brother, Rudi, his father Martin, and his mother Teresa. His also faces a charge of attempted murder of his sister, Marli.  theolin.tembo@inl.co.za  Cape Argus