A meeting was held by City council officials on Tuesday to find  a solution to the protest which left two city vehicles damaged, two traffic lights broken, three city staff members injured and 19 residents arrested on Monday. City of Cape Town’s mayoral committee member for Area East, Anda Ntsodo, said the residents, who occupy SA National Roads Agency (Sanral) land on the N2, were informed in June that they would get electricity next year. “The City has an agreement with the community and Sanral to install basic services such as water, waste collection, sanitation and electricity. “Everything else has been provided except for electricity,” said Ntsodo. Ntsodo said the city was in the process of designing a  network. He said part of that process was to relocate some of the informal settlement homes due to creating roads. “The area is very dense so people will be moved as part of that. The City is not refusing to give basic services. We are following due processes. “The people are aware of this. They must be patient, it will take six months,” he said. Meanwhile, at the Strand Magistrate’s Court residents protested for the release of the arrested community members. The gates at the courthouse were closed to the public with Nyala vans and Public Order Police and metro police surrounding the area. Court orderlies struggled to maintain order as people pushed to get in. Others appearing in court for separate matters faced difficulties in getting in. Some turned away while others manoeuvred through the court’s back entrance. The 19 men and women facing public violence were granted bail. Speaking to the Cape Argus frustrated residents said they want the City to give them a clear date on when electricity will be installed in their homes. Mlungisi Slatsha a resident, said during last year’s by-elections the city promised them the six months’ waiting period. Close to 14 months later there is still no set date. “We won’t wait any longer. Meetings are held behind closed doors on our behalf, yet no one is coming to us. We won’t accept this. Sanral gave the City money to provide services for us. We know that they are waiting for the 2019 elections before providing these services,” he said. Another resident, Noxolo Silali said crime was increasing. “People are dying because there is no light when you walk around here in the evenings. “Residents are resorting to illegal electricity wiring and that is causing conflict with those living in formal housing structures. Not so long ago a 8-year-old child was electrocuted by illegal wires. We are tired of waiting.”  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus