Massimo's, a home away from home by Lance Witten Tucked away in the Hout Bay valley is a little Italian restaurant serving incredible pizzas and pastas, and helping good causes along the way.
Massimo’s in Hout Bay has a roaring wood-fired pizza oven in full view of the diners; warm, friendly staff, thin-crust pizzas with toppings to die for, and home-made limoncello and other liqueurs if you’re after a true taste of Italy. On Wednesdays, there’s open mic karaoke (where you’ll get a complimentary limoncello for every song you sing); for the added price of a pizza slice you can donate money to the firefighters who so regularly tend to blazes in the area, or, if you prefer, you can donate to the local animal shelter, Darg (Domestic Animal Rescue Group). There’s a sprawling outdoor area with a massive play park to keep the kids entertained, with sheltered outdoor seating. Their sangria is refreshing and delicious; their pizza toppings are minimalistic with well-thought-through flavour pairings. Can you tell I’m a fan? The best part is the warmth you feel as you walk in. After just one karaoke night, I returned many weeks later to be welcomed by name, with questions as to why I had not returned sooner. Massimo’s means family, and everyone’s welcome.  La Mouette delivers on taste, flavours and service by Nidha Narrandes I find the most unexpected spaces deliver on the best taste experiences. You wouldn't expect to find a fine-dining venue among the overcrowded restaurants in Sea Point, but it exists and you will thank me. Not only is La Mouette generously affordable for the quality cuisine they serve up, they also offer a few options on their menu. You can choose between a more affordable three-course meal or the six-course for the heartier appetite, with or without a wine pairing. There is also an à la carte menu for the less adventurous. The decor is warm and woody, mostly because the restaurant is an old, restored home. Wooden floors, high ceilings and big fireplaces, it invites you in and keeps you toasty. Opting for the six-course, I mopped through each dish with vigour. The first dish of onion soup set the tone for the rest of the courses. Loved it! It was the perfect balance of sweet and savoury, and an arancini added texture and elevated the flavours. Masterfully plated, on crockery of all shapes and sizes, you can tell much thought went into the preparation and display. Through the experience of each delectable serving was crispy ham hock, artichoke truffle purée and mustard frill. And then there was the delicately prepared line fish with garlic cream, sago crisp, charred leeks, lentil crust and edible mussel shell. The shell was crafted to look exactly like the real thing; it is almost impossible to believe it wasn't. The dish designed with my palate in mind was the lamb neck, with black garlic paste, buffalo milk yoghurt, baby gem and a Moroccan rub. It was brilliantly prepared, melted in your mouth and each element complimented the next effortlessly. A well-tuned dish. Then there was the well-constructed conclusion in the form of dessert. The names, Milk and Honey and Melting Ferrero Rocher give you an idea of what to expect. Artfully presented and enjoyed with gusto, it made for the perfect finish. The service was on par with the quality of the food, which says a lot about the establishment. Chef and co-founder of La Mouette, the talented Henry Vigar, finds inspiration for his dishes in the wonderful produce the country has to offer. “My food is influenced by everything around me. But I feel your life experiences, travel and views really define your cuisine. “A dish I worked on for a long time was the melting Ferro Roche. I spent a while tasting different percentages of chocolate to get the dessert just right. It's a dish I am very proud of,” he says. And rightfully so. It is a great "special occasion" restaurant. Sea Point is a weekend favourite, make sure you try this gem out.  Garden offers fine, but pricey dining by Lance Witten An oasis awaits you in the centre of Cape Town’s CBD. A lush and diverse garden with centuries-old trees, friendly squirrels, an aviary, functional herb and vegetable garden, fountains and rolling green lawns in which you can spend endless sunshine hours tucked away from the bustle of the business district. I’m talking of course about the Company’s Garden. But suppose you’re not too keen on carrying parcels of food or a cooler box of food for a picnic. Suppose you want fine dining under dappled sunlight with squirrels and pigeons fighting over the crumbs of your scraps. It’s all very organic. So much so, that the playground area features “birds’ nests” installations for the kiddies to climb and hide in in the iconic design of Porky Hefer. The Company’s Garden offers fine dining with superb café fare. Their burgers are particularly divine and their children’s menu is vast and delicious. It is on the pricey side, so it’s clear the menu is aimed at tourists, and you’d be hard-pressed to find salt-of-the-earth locals dining here. All in all, it’s a very pleasant dining experience and the children are amply entertained by wooden carved animals and the life-sized chess board nearby. Cape Argus