The strike and protest were cancelled after the university managed to secure an interdict against them. They blocked the protest because of the timing of the protest and the location of the strike. Workers and students were unhappy about private security guards being deployed on the Rondebosch campus during a meeting between workers and management. One of the workers, Nozizwe Beye, said: “We are sick of these delaying tactics. The money I get from UCT is nothing. “From now on I am not going to be quiet.” Another worker told the Cape Argus a meeting with management would take place today. Beye said they were being paid poorly while  UCT’s top management paid themselves R2.8 million in performance bonuses for 2016, almost double the R1.5m of 2015. The workers have submitted a list of demands that include regular seven-hour shifts for workers who currently work four-hour shifts, a 25% shift allowance, and double time for working on Sundays and public holidays. The South African Liberated Public Sector Workers’ Union has been in negotiations with the university for five months. “We couldn’t reach an agreement with the university but we hope in the next meeting taking place (today) we can reach some sort of consensus. “In the meantime we have submitted our application for our strike to take place,” said union representative Abraham Agulhas. “We decided to go to the CCMA to assist us in settling the matter. At the CCMA we couldn’t reach any agreement, that’s why we now can legally strike,” he said. The workers were joined by student activists. “We as black students are still unable to pay the exorbitant fees and some, mainly black students, remain academically excluded,” said activist Masixole Mlandu. A statement released by UCT’s executive committee said: “We are pleased that we have been able to agree on a process of further engagement, and that we now have an opportunity to address the outstanding issues of concern to labour. “The vice-chancellor and senior members of the management team are meeting with the unions, and UCT is committed to a further process of engagement to resolve the issues.” Before the march was set to get under way, UCT said in a statement that it would take action against anyone who tried to interfere with academic activities. It also said action would be taken against those who sought to shut down the university.  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus