If you ask any local where to buy spices, the retort is immediately "Bo-Kaap". Zainie Misbach, who was born and grew up in the kaleidoscope streets, is a culinary legend in the community. With over 30 years of experience in Cape Malay cuisine, she has created a business from her talent and is the host of the Bo-Kaap Cooking Tour offered to visitors and locals. Misbach kicks off the tour at the Atlas Spice Shop where she introduces newcomers to the world of finely ground greatness. On the walking tour through the streets, she regales people with tales of every mural, corner and shop in the Bo-Kaap. Her stories of love, struggle and loss draw you in and keep you captivated. The tour ends at her home on Rose Street, and it’s time for the flavours to take over. Misbach patiently teaches the tour group how to put together a true Malay feast with the utmost care. The secret of making a great curry is all in the spice. Hot or not, the scent fills up the kitchen and keeps you salivating until the meal is served. Making a good roti is all about the mixture, allowing it to rest and then rolling it out with care. As the cooking lessons draw to a close, the table is set and a Malay feast awaits you. Every dish is cooked with love and enjoyed in great company. You leave with a full stomach and a heartfelt respect for the Bo-Kaap community. Mission accomplished. The cooking tour is being promoted by Cape Town Tourism following the release of the latest Neighbourhoods video. It is an important educational tour of culture, cuisine and community. More locals and tourists alike should participate in the tours; it is amazing how much you don’t know about what’s right in your backyard. Toast the arrival of spring at wine estate It is officially Heritage Month and spring is here. It is time to get out of the winter wear and out into the open. To make the month exciting, Gabriëlskloof Estate has drummed up some interesting events. First there is the Mzansi tapas tasters and then the long-table braai feast. Gabriëlskloof is a sprawling wine and olive estate in the Overberg area. With its month-long offering of proudly South African treats, which will culminate with a long-table heritage braai feast on September 24, it is a must for this spring. For the entire month, the Gabriëlskloof Tasting Lounge will showcase home-grown flavours with a unique Mzansi tapas taster featuring familiar snack bites with a local twist, paired with four estate wines. Think snoek '* patat croquettes with amasi foam and chakalaka, bobotie poppers, tangy pickled fish tacos and biltong in red wine. Gabriëlskloof’s Mzansi tapas tasters will also be available as small-plate starters or sides to a main meal at their resident restaurant. The celebration will build up to a memorable braai feast on Heritage Day with executive chef Frans Groenewald promising to pull out all the stops.  Expect it to be braai heaven as seasonal fare is served with genuine Gabriëlskloof hospitality. Cape Argus 