Irate residents they need speed bumps or other traffic control measures on the road as it was the umpteenth accident and fatality on the road. Nomawethu Dumalisile died in a crash involving a Toyota Avanza "iphela". Her daughter, Lindelwa Nonzwa, who witnessed the incident, said Dumalisile "was coming from a nearby shop in Sheffield Road, Philippi, when she was hit and dragged along the road". She died on the scene. Three people, who were injured in similar crashes on the same road, are still recovering. The taxi driver who killed the woman, reversed the car to an informal house and the community grabbed the him as he was trying to escape. "My mother was coming from the shop and a vehicle from nowhere came and bumped her. I am still in shock about my mom's passing. Many people were injured on the road and I never imagined that my mom will die like this.” Nonzwa said: “Communities are very angry towards the taxi 'iphela' to the extent that they closed the road with containers and stones. This led to one car being burnt as a result of the accident. "This is not the first time this type of incident has happened, our hope is that the City of Cape town can help us by installing speed bumps, which will help to reduce accidents happening on the road." To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Bongani Mani, who is the zone secretary for Sanco, said a meeting took place between all stakeholders to discuss the matter. “I am of the view that the authorities must assist us as the community, by putting our safely first.” The ward councillor, Fikiswa Nkunzana, said the City sub-council would be discussing the Sheffield Road matter on Friday. “I am aware of the closed street and I have met both families involved in this incident. I will ask the sub-council for the possibility of installing speed bumps.” Police spokesperson, Elliot Sinyangana, said a meeting was called between the community and all affected parties to resolve the issue, and he pleaded with the community to open the the barricaded road “so that essential services can  smoothly operate in the community. The driver was arrested and faces charges of culpable homicide.” Cape Argus 