Well, you will be happy to hear I am out of the hospital and well. Thanks to the amazing staff at Groote Schuur Hospital. There were many resources made available to the homeless this winter. The winter programme got extended, JP Smith - of  the City’s social development, and his team made provision for more funding towards us and many NGOs came to the party with skills development programmes, etc. These are great opportunities to better ourselves. Money has been spent on programmes like the EPWP (Expanded Public Works Programme). The CCID started an initiative in Greenmarket Square, creating job opportunities. Jesse Laitinen from Street Scapes opened more vegetable gardens. The City, NGOs, the business sector and the public gave in so many ways. Soup kitchens ensure no one will go to bed hungry . The Central Library has art and poetry workshops. The city has a database where one can register for work opportunities. SEE: Inspired by the humanity at Groote Schuur For those with drug-related issues, there are outpatient programmes as well as OST (Opioid substitution therapy programmes) Or social workers to chat with.  All free. Sadly, many of the homeless did not make use of  these opportunities. Unfair expectations are placed on NGOs, the City, the CCID, the churches and the general public.  We have this culture of entitlement among us. It seems that we have lost the hunger to better ourselves.We don’t want to start at the bottom and work our way up. We want to be at the top. In some cases, we are just too proud or too arrogant to admit we need help. But we have to take that first liberating step. Nobody can force help on anybody. I have been there. It is scary but hey, one step at a time. Trust me, people want to see us back in society. They are willing and eager to help. Let your past be your past. Look at me: I had a PhD in messing up. I started all over as a street cleaner with the EPWP programme. Yes, Ripleys believe it or not. I just had to get out of my fake comfort zone and start right down there. We cannot be laid-back and lazy, waiting for someone to save us. Ain’t nobody capable of changing your life. That ain’t gonna happen! You will never win the lotto unless you buy a ticket. And you will never have a job unless you go out there and look for one. You will hear “no vacancy” many a time. The trick is not to give up. Be grateful towards those who have bent over backwards for us.  The free meal we received was paid by someone else, in case you forgot. Yes, there is generosity out there, but don’t take it for granted. Don’t bite the hand that feeds you! masekind321@gmail.com * Danny Oosthuizen, #TheDignityProject ambassador, in his weekly daily column for the Cape Argus tackles the struggles homeless people face. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. CAPE ARGUS