The names of Cameron Dugmore, ANC MPL in the Legislature; Sammy Claasen, ANC spokesperson for the party’s West Coast region; Deputy Police Minister Bongani Mkongi; and former ANC MP Randy Pieterse; have been nominated unofficially by members to contest the top job. The ANC in the province will be holding a provincial general council (PGC) meeting to elect a new chairperson. Former provincial chairperson Marius Fransman was axed from the ANC for five years after a sexual harassment complaint by a 21-year-old Stellenbosch woman. Fransman would not be drawn on the provincial leadership race, but said he had noted the names of candidates and warned that leadership ambitions would sow more divisions. “Politics is about the people and not the quest for leadership positions in the party. I have seen a glaring absence of a dedicated strategy to tackle the issues of our people such as gang violence and housing,” he said. Khaya Magaxa, who acted as chairperson, has already said he wanted to step down from the position to focus on his role as SACP provincial secretary. Mkongi, who is seen as a staunch supporter of President Jacob Zuma, earlier this year announced that he had ambitions to become the ANC’s Western Cape chairperson, after he paid for the hiring of the venue where several regions called for the party’s provincial executive to be disbanded. He, however, told the Cape Argus that he will wait until he is officially nominated by ANC branches. “I know that the branches are currently looking at names of candidates. The PEC has been instructed to hold a provincial general council to elect a new provincial leader and has been working towards this. If I am nominated, I will contest the position,” he said. Claasen, who also supports Zuma, said he was more focused on attracting the votes of the coloured and black majority. “We need to go back to basics. On the Cape Flats we have a problem of gang violence. Our children are being raped and killed at an alarming rate. We have massive challenges in our townships with regard to service delivery. “The ANC in this province does not need a high flyer. We need someone who can work the ground for the party, irrespective of colour, race or what position they may hold within the party,” he said. Dugmore took a more diplomatic approach in responding to calls for him to avail himself. “I am aware that my name has been mentioned as a candidate for provincial chairperson. It is inappropriate to comment at this stage. “As per ANC tradition, our ANC structures, led by the PEC of the Western Cape, will officiate over all these matters relating to the convening of the PGC,” he said. On the issue of race within the party’s top structure, Dugmore said: “As the ANC we are alert to the dynamics of race within our structures.” Pieterse could not be reached for comment. And the leadership of the ANC Western Cape’s six regions declined to comment. Cape Argus