Cape Town – A young entrepreneur has proven that you can make a living off the internet. Sibu Mpanza from Wynberg has over 250 000 hits on his YouTube channel and companies are now paying him to promote their brands. He has more than 4 200 subscribers and that figure is growing every week. “It’s possible to have a career on the internet. Make content, if you have something you want to get off your chest, you can create a YouTube channel on it,” said Mpanza who describes himself as a YouTuber, photographer and digital marketer. The 22-year-old, originally from Mpumalanga, is driven by a passion for social issues. He moved to Cape Town at a young age and studied at UCT. In 2014, he took a course in Psychology and would sit in a computer lab watching videos and learning on YouTube. One of the videos that inspired him was by Caspar Lee, a South African international YouTube mogul with more than 7.2 million subscribers. He created his first video on August 18, 2014, and after struggling to get hits and subscribers, roped in friends, family and the online community to help get traction. The response and support grew immensely and he soon caught the eye of brands like Vodacom, Burger King, Standard Bank and TakeAlot. “Brands are starting to wake up. They are beginning to realise the power of video online,” said Mpanza. Words of inspiration by personalities Jo-Ann Strauss and Minnie Dlamini while on holiday at Mauritius pushed him towards more success in his digital career. “You are going to be huge. “It might take time or it might not be overnight, but if you keep going the way you are going right now, you have the personality of a successful person,” they told him, he said. Mpanza said 2017 had been an explosive year, and he had been able to assist his family by paying for his little sister’s school fees. “The easiest way to be authentic is to be yourself. Do not go into it for the money, you’ll hate it. Keep in mind there’s an opportunity but do it because you love it,” said Mpanza.