Cape Town - Large-scale excavation of the mountain where an elaborate extension of the Muizenberg, Cape Town, police station would be built is estimated to cost around R20 000 per square metre, the Cape Argus has reliably learnt. The R100 million project, when completed, would include two new buildings, one of them – which is going to be two floors higher than the existing heritage building which houses the current police station – would be entirely built where a large part of the mountain once would've been. While the SA Police Service (SAPS) refused to take responsibility for what would be a multi-million rand price tag, saying the Muizenberg police station would be fully funded by the national Department of Public Works, it had since emerged that the planning and design of the station was contained in the police's 2013/14 annual report. Senior researcher at the Social Justice Coalition (SJC), Dalli Weyers, said: "That makes it clear that even where Public Works takes the lead, SAPS has a hand." SAPS – which had initially not responded to the Cape Argus' questions concerning the mega-upgrade to the Muizenberg police station as well as plans for other police stations in Cape Town – revealed last week there were three new stations which were in the "planning" phases. These would built in Tafelsig, Makhaza and Nyanga, Western Cape provincial police spokesperson Novela Potelwa said. However the SJC, which had been at the forefront of the battle for additional policing resources in crime-ridden areas, poked holes in the police's story. Weyers said the police's annual reports for the 2013/14 to 2015/16 financial years indicate each year police undertook "site clearance" for a police station in Weltevreden, in Nyanga and each year the target was reported as "not completed". He said the SAPS report for 2015/16 also revealed a "not completed" status for the Tafelsig police station. "According to SAPS' Strategic Plan for 2014 to 2019, SAPS committed to the construction of the Makhaza Police Station by 2019," Weyers said. Public Works spokesperson Thami Mchunu had previously said, according to the department's records, there were no requests from SAPS for additional police stations in Cape Town. National police spokesperson Sally de Beer was however adamant the projects were underway and were at "different stages in the building process". "One cannot supply an exact date of completion as there are many different factors which go into this planning," De Beer said. Meanwhile, the SJC insisted both SAPS and Public Works "were to be held responsible for the R100 million price tag" of the Muizenberg police station, which the organisation said would be a "police palace". Muizenberg councillor Aimee Kuhl said she was against the extension of the police station, but wanted the upgrade to continue as it was "much-needed". Kuhl also rejected the police's response that construction for the other three police station was in "planning" phases. "If we're talking about holding government to account, then transparency should be key. In this instance, I don't think they're being transparent," Kuhl said. "It gives the impression that they're buying time and waiting for the public to lose interest in what's going on."  siyabonga.sesant@inl.co.za 