Cape Town - Former DA leader Helen Zille is in the firing line after a Twitter rant in March which was perceived to have been in praise of colonialism, an allegation she had vehemently denied. DA federal executive chairperson James Selfe on Tuesday confirmed the party’s federal legal commission (FLC) was still in the process of finalising the charge sheet against the Western Cape premier. Selfe also rubbished criticism Zille should have been suspended pending the outcome of the disciplinary process, saying “people in the DA are only suspended if there is a realistic prospect that they will interfere with an investigation or interfere with witnesses”. “Neither of these apply in respect of Ms Zille,” he said. Selfe said the disciplinary process, which started on Sunday after an internal investigation into the social media debacle, could take months. “The DA’s procedures involve hearings at which evidence is led and witnesses are cross-examined. “The panel meets when the panel members, the accused member and his or her legal representative(s) are simultaneously available,” he explained. Another factor which had to be considered was that Zille is “extremely busy”. “There is furthermore an appeal stage that is possible. All these factors suggest a longer time for the process to be completed.” The charges follow a complaint lodged by DA leader Mmusi Maimane, Zille’s successor, after the tweets in which the premier suggested that not every aspect of colonialism was bad. “The initial referral was supplemented on March 22 to include reference to 'a series of comments (made) publicly and on social media that have… exacerbated and amplified the original tweet'.” This is believed to include an article she wrote for the Daily Maverick. In the article, Zille explained that she had returned from a visit to Singapore, where she was struck by the efficiency, to struggle to find milk or newspapers in the VIP lounge of OR Tambo Airport. She added that she had not defended colonialism but said its entire legacy was not negative. “The tweeple had concluded that I had defended colonialism. Not so, I said, I had merely said that although it had been an oppressive and evil system, not every consequence had been negative,” she wrote. Faiez Jacobs, ANC Western Cape secretary, said: “The DA’s decision to take Zille to a party disciplinary committee fails to bring a measure of relief to the people she has offended, especially if she still enjoys the benefits of power, without any ensuing shame of her shameless act.”  siyabonga.sesant@inl.co.za 