Cape Town – It will be all hands on deck for traffic officers in the province as they prepare for high traffic volumes ahead of the Easter weekend. Western Cape traffic chief Kenny Africa said no officers would be on leave. “It will be a full house, officers will be working around the clock. “We are expecting heavy traffic from Thursday into Friday morning. Areas which will be overflowing with traffic will be Sir Lowry’s Pass heading towards Caledon, the N1 heading north, and the West Coast’s R27. “Then on Monday it will be bumper to bumper from Swellendam and Ashton to Worcester. It is going to be a very busy weekend.” Africa said public transport such as buses and taxis would be checked for roadworthiness and issued with colour-coded stickers for approval. “Taxis and buses will be checked at Joe Gqabi Long Distance Bus Terminus and the main taxi rank. If a vehicle is found to be roadworthy, a sticker will be put on the windscreen so that traffic officers on the road can see it has been checked. “Vehicles that are faulty will be impounded immediately and will not operate,” he said. The main pit stops for checks would be the Joe Gqabi terminus, the Huguenot Tunnel and the Joostenbergvlakte bridge. Mayco member for safety and security JP Smith said Metro Police would also be going to work around the clock in the city. “Over the Easter weekend we bring in a lot of staff on overtime and bolster them with overtime pay to have more of a presence on the road and in recreation areas. “Water restrictions will be lifted on the pools this weekend, otherwise there will be riots, so the pools will be open. More lifeguards will be activated and many other services will be on standby so they can deal with the demand.” Smith said: “One of the biggest perpetrators is the long distance buses and taxis that significantly contribute to road deaths, so we have implemented Operation Exodus to check their roadworthiness before they depart.” Roadblocks will be increased, as will blitz alcohol testing, and provincial traffic police will embark on a change speed operation. Africa said this year the province, together with the national department, aimed to decrease last year’s national death toll by at least 50%. Last year the national Easter weekend death toll dropped to 46% from 287 to 156. In the Western Cape the recorded death toll was 21, two fewer than the 2016 Easter weekend. The Automobile Association urged motorists to drive cautiously. “Too often drivers think bad situations won’t happen to them. “It takes only one reckless driver to cause mayhem.”