Cape Town -  Mayor Patricia de Lille’s engagement with the community of Khayelitsha was disrupted before it could even get going. Lonwabo Mqina began shouting that he wanted to speak before security removed him from the community hall. In response De Lille said Mqina had regularly disrupted the city's meetings in Khayelitsha, and such disruption would not be allowed. The City hosted an Organisational Development and Transformation Plan (ODTP) roadshow, which aims to bring parity of services to all the people of Cape Town. Resident Noxolo Mangaliso said she was happy that services were being rolled out. “We knew about some of the services the City provides but for most of us it is difficult to go to town to access them because of transport money. We are happy they have been brought on our doorstep,” she said. Another resident, Bathandwa Njeza said even though she is happy with the roadshow she does not know how it is going to help her. Njeza is a backyarder who said she had been waiting for a house "for a long time" and wanted to check her position on the waiting list. De Lille said it was wonderful to see the roll out of the ODTP because less than a year after its launch "transversal management is coming to life". “The ODTP values will work together as a guide for our intent, actions and behaviour to help shape our working culture and encourage excellent service delivery in all we do,” she said. De Lille said the ODTP is about taking service delivery to the next level, and one of its priorities is to achieve excellence in basic delivery. She said this is achieved when residents believe that their needs are being met and there is an improvement living conditions. "We want to enhance our accountability to you and we want to empower you to do so. “This is why we are bringing services to you. We do not want to wait for you to come to us with problems. Instead, we want to come to you proactively to prevent major issues to begin with,” said de Lille. Services offered at the roadshow included grant applications, housing database queries, billing enquiries, health checks, and library sign-up services. De Lille said a proposed R709.5 million would be spent in Khayelitsha during the 2017/18 financial year and a further R2.7 billion over the next three years. 