Cape Town – The father who allegedly murdered his three-year-old twins is most likely to appear in court on Monday, the police said on Friday. The man was arrested on Thursday after he fled the scene of the alleged murder in the twins' mother's car. He was reportedly being treated in hospital on Friday, but further details were not immediately available. “The circumstances surrounding the death of the twins, a boy and a girl, are being investigated after their bodies were discovered by their mother at the holiday residence of their father in Princess Road, Hout Bay," police spokesperson André Traut said on Thursday. "At her arrival, the 48-year-old father fled the scene in the mother’s vehicle but was later arrested in Wynberg. Once charged, he is due to make a court appearance in Wynberg on two charges of murder and theft of a motor vehicle. The exact cause of their death is yet to be determined.” According to sources the twins were apparently strangled to death. MEC for Community Safety Dan Plato said: “It is a very sad situation, we talk to communities about protecting children and children's rights everyday.” He said he does not know the circumstances but investigations are still under way. Plato said he does not condone any act of violence against whether to old people or to children. “When people are going through difficult times they need to get help and talk about their problems to avoid such incidents,” he said. Molo Songololo’s Patric Solomons he is quite shocked about the news of a father killing his children. “It is tragic that a father would kill his children who are innocent, it is very sad,” he said. Solomons said it is an act of violence by the father against his own children, “Parents are supposed to protect their children.” He said there have been such cases in the country in the past, and it is usually both parents who kill their children, but for different reasons. Solomons said often men don’t speak about what they are going through and tend to up lashing out they tend to lash out. “I can imagine what the mother and the family are going through trying to figure out answers and if they could have prevented this tragedy from happening,” he said. "Parents are supposed to protect their children no matter what they are going through," he added.