Cape Town - The "roast" of President Jacob Zuma is how some described Thursday's Cape Town leg of a series of memorial services held in honour of late anti-apartheid stalwart, Ahmed Kathrada. The service, a precursor to the countrywide anti-Zuma marches on Friday, attracted thousands of people who filled the St George's Cathedral to capacity. Loudspeakers were placed outside where a large spillover crowd, which was accommodated on the church's steps and along the street, listened to proceedings. Invited guests included former finance minister Pravin Gordhan, who served as the keynote speaker, as well as a list of activists, who echoed calls for Zuma to step down.    The first speaker, Kathrada's best friend, Eddie Daniels, 88, received a rapturous applause from the crowd. Daniels called Kathrada "an exemplary leader", comparing the Struggle hero to fellow greats Nelson Mandela and Walter Sisulu.    Zuma appeared to be the target of a string of speakers who followed. Equal Education's Tshepo Motsepe bemoaned Zuma's close ties with the controversial Gupta family. "We believe you Mcebisi (Jonas) when you say those buggers at Saxonwold offered you a job," Motsepe said. "On the nuclear deal, we say we refuse to be lifelong customers of (Zuma's nephew) Khulubuse Zuma," he added.    Activist Vuyiseka Dubula also did not hold back: "I start with a song to remind you this is not Zuma's country," she said. "It's our country! We are here to ensure that we get decent jobs because we pay tax. Down with the nuclear deal!" Dubula was followed by a number of other speakers including the Social Justice Coalition's Phumeza Mlungwana as well the South African Communist Party's Jeremy Cronin, who called for the citizenship of the Guptas to be revoked. The crowd erupted when Gordhan made his way to the stage. The axed finance minister paid homage to Kathrada: "It's clear there are dark clouds gathering on the horizon, and in times like these we turn to figures like Kathrada to understand what these clouds mean. "Be engaged not by sitting on the couch and watching news, but by caring about what is happening to our country," Gordhan said to applause. siyabonga.sesant@inl.co.za