Cape Town Level 3b water restrictions the highest level yet are on the horizon as the City of Cape Town scrambles to find ways to curb excessive water use amid diminishing dam levels which, at 42.5%, are critically low. But, despite the crisis, officials have refuted reports that taps could run dry in less than 100 days.Xanthea Limberg, the mayoral committee member for water services, said: I can confirm that will not be case. If we are strained, we will, for example, be able to tap into our emergency sources. Short of escalating the water crisis to Level 4, the municipality has opted to hike water restrictions to Level 3b from February 1.If approved by the council next week, residents should note:* Watering or irrigation (with municipal drinking water) of flower beds, lawns, vegetables and other plants, sports fields, parks and other open spaces would only be allowed on Tuesdays and Saturdays before 9am or after 6pm for a maximum of one hour per day per property, and only if using a bucket or watering can.* No watering or irrigation would be allowed within 48 hours of rainfall that would provide adequate saturation.* No washing of vehicles or boats using municipal drinking water would be allowed. Vehicles and boats must be washed with non-potable water or washed at a commercial car wash.While the Level 3 restrictions have been in place for some time, some residents in Strand and Khayelitsha said they were not aware of them.Ntombizodwa Majeke, who lives in Lonja in Strand, said that while the informal settlement experienced water cuts, the community was not sure what the cause was. Another community that is in the dark like ours is Greenfield, but there things are worse because they would go two days without water, with no announcements made to the community. A Khayelitsha car-wash owner said the first time she had heard about the water restrictions was this week, from the Cape Argus. The businesswoman, who asked not to be named, said the last time city officials visited the property was at the beginning of last year when inspectors checked the water usage of the car wash. They have not been back since, she said.Limberg said the city planned to crack down on the worst offenders. So many of our residents have really gone above and beyond the call of duty to save water. They have been selfless and have been true water ambassadors for us. Sadly, this cannot be said of all of our residents.&quot; We will continue to take action against these culprits and will target the city s top 20 000 high water users the majority of whom reside in formal areas of the metro, Limberg said on Thursday.Cape Argus