Cape Town - A skills programme honouring the life of anti-apartheid activist Ashley Kriel has been launched at the high school in his home suburb, Bonteheuwel, in the hope of training and developing its youth. The Ashley Kriel Skills Development Centre was started to fill the unemployment gap and instil values to inspire the youth through practical job experience and scholarships.Shirleen van Rheede, a resident for 56 years, said she experienced the turmoil of 1976 pupil and student uprising and added that the programme could help remove negative influences such as gangsterism. I m super-excited. I can see things happening for our kids. Nobody dreamt Bonteheuwel High would be one of the schools that s going to stand out for the Struggle. Chief executiver of the initiative, Dr Lionel Scott-Muller, said the programme s aims were to empower people to engage positively and build sustainable livelihoods . We cannot be selfish and think of Ashley Kriel as from Bonteheuwel only. Ashley Kriel was an iconic figure for this country. He said the teacher assistant programme was part South Africa s National Plan 2030 that looks to place about 200 young people in various schools. The Department of Higher Education and Training will be the main funders. The underlying philosophy of the centre is to reignite and rekindle youth activism. Muller said many courses were available to candidates, such as early childhood development and electrical engineering, also stating that candidates receive a R1500 stipend and there are possibilities for internships and bursaries. Two candidates, Jason Gordon, 22 and Leigh-ann Sylvester, 23, were thrilled to be part of the assistant teacher programme. The programme has been very positive because these guys are telling us about how it was in Bonteheuwel.&quot; So they are trying to help us as the youth of tomorrow to help the youth of the future, said Gordon.He said that there is a brighter future for people in communities like Bonteheuwel.Sylvester said she found out about the programme through a neighbour and is enjoying getting to know other candidates. We encourage each other &nbsp; [email&#160;protected]Cape Argus