Cape Town Firefighters must have a passion to do their job, a firefighter told the Cape Argus on Thursday, after it was reported that some firefighters say they are overworked. The firefighter, who asked not to be named, disagreed with a colleague who felt they were pushed to the point of exhaustion. This is what we signed up for. It seems as if he lost his mojo. He said the public must know that there were only a few in the service that shared the overworked sentiments. &quot;The rest of us thrive on going from call to call, being in the trenches and getting dirty, pushing yourself to the limit, he said.However, the firefighter agreed that what was taught to them in theory barely covered what happened in reality. It is for that reason he should know fire crews can t just be relieved from the fire ground when their shift hours have been reached. No, we've got to stay there and protect life, property and the environment until a fresh crew is ready to take over, the firefighter said.He said they had been extremely busy but it made up for the rest of the year when there was not as much work. Firefighting heroes 'treated like dogs' Our family, friends and even strangers think the world of us and give us all the support they can, the firefighter added. We seem to be the centre of every conversation. But when a firefighter comes out to the media and says we are being treated like dogs, that's below the belt. One thing that must also be remembered is that our job gets easier every year because more and more firefighting agencies, plus the city s own seasonal fire- fighters, are on board to assist us. I may not have as much service as him but after many years as a firefighter, I too can t smoke the pipe as I used to. The health isn t what it used to be. The endurance isn t what it used to be. But I still love this calling till the end. Another firefighter who spoke to the Cape Argus said leadership teams failed to manage their resources and staff. He said some firefighters worked up to 30 hours.A Constantia station firefighter with 20 years of experience said working 24-hour shifts had been standard since 1991, but that senior management needed to look after their team members. Vulcan Wildfire Management director Patrick Ryan said firefighters faced some of the harshest working conditions on earth. Some of the more obvious dangers are the incredible heat of the flames. The air in a fire is also superheated, which can burn airways if breathed in and the smoke can cause confusion. Because of the high CO2 (carbon dioxide) levels, it can be very debilitating. This results in a loss of focus and people not thinking clearly, Ryan said. There are lots of hazards out there like large moving vehicles and the water bombing of the helicopters. The water can knock you off your feet. And a direct hit by a full load from a fixed-wing bomber could kill you. Another hazard is the public. Most of the public stay away from the incident, but there are always people who try to get close to the fire. The last thing we want is for a firefighter to be injured trying to protect a member of the public who has got into a bad situation. Cape Argus