Cape Town - Motorists in Elsies River are living in fear after a spate of stoning incidents in Modderdam and Ravensmead that has already left one man dead after he was struck on the head with a brick. Police spokesperson Captain Frederick van Wyk said: Circumstances surrounding a culpable homicide case are being investigated after a 28-year-old man was struck with a brick while driving his motor vehicle in 35th street, Clarkes Estate, on Saturday morning (January 7) at around 2am. He lost control and died after colliding with a lamp pole. Condolences poured in for the young father of one.Micaela Jane Owies said: It just feels like the law does absolutely nothing about this! Rowena Adams posted: So sad that it could be young children doing stupid things without thinking what they do to others. RIP young man and condolences to the family. Dorothy Abrahams wrote: With tears in my eyes, my friend you will be missed by many. I listen to your voice notes you sent me, and I have to laugh... You were so funny and always had a smile on your face. Others showed compassion for the perpetrators of the stoning. May Jesus forgive them for they do not know what they are doing, Shane Bojan Cupido wrote.The Elsies River Gangwatch Facebook group posted that the attacks were persisting and the January 7 incident was not an isolated one. Stone throwing in Elsies River is becoming too frequent lately one person lost his life and many cars have been damaged due to this. We are appealing to the community to report these perpetrators to the police, a post read.A commenter also claimed that an attack took place as recently as Friday night. Incidents of stone throwing on Jakes Gerwel Drive were also reported on the Mitchells Plain Gangwatch page on Monday. Warning!!!! Stone Throwing Vanguard Drive about 40min ago opposite Hanover Park the first footbridge three guys just missed us my driver couldn t stop, the post read.Another follower posted in reply: It s a regular occurrence, I was driving towards Mplain and saw it they are throwing from the first footbridge as you come from the bend. I m not sure if they hit any cars as nobody stopped they hid under the stairs so you can t see them when you approach. Please be careful people. The deputy chairperson of the Elsies River Community Policing Forum, Imraahn Mukaddam, said he could not see the reasoning behind the stonings, labelling them malicious .&nbsp; It s an abhorrent practice, and cowardly to throw stones at innocent motorists. It s a practice run by delinquent youth that s high on drugs. Cape Argus