Cape Town The Cape Argus has been part of the Abrahams family for as long as Goosain Abrahams, 68, from Walmer Estate, can remember. He inherited his subscription from his father in 1970 and has been a loyal reader ever since. It is a tradition in our family to subscribe to both the Cape Argus and the Cape Times. But, even before his family subscribed, he recalls: A man would walk up Upper Melbourne Street shouting Argie, Argie . Today, Abrahams, a retired accountant, is a freelance sports writer for the Cape Argus. He says the Cape Argus and its journalists have become more representative. The Argus hasn t only transformed in the boardroom; it s changed in its coverage.Taking pride in finding solutions You get tired of reading about the southern suburbs, Bishopscourt and Rondebosch. Now we can read about Harold Cressy and Surrey Estate. There is an equitable spread of news now. People can pick up the Argus and feel they are part of it now. Abrahams believes that the Cape Argus covers a greater cross-section of the community. Nari&egrave;-Louise Meyer from Sunnydale has been a subscriber for over 20 years. Over the years the Cape Argus has been welcome in our house. I prefer my Argus because the paper focuses on the news around me, rather than more national issues. I look forward to taking it out of my post box every morning and have so for the past 20 years. I like having my Argus with my evening cup of coffee. She said the Cape Argus is a very good, pleasant newspaper and the new format is easier to read. A lot of reporters have become favourites in this house. Douglas Mitchell Hendry is from Riebeek West and has been enjoying the Cape Argus since moving to the Cape four years ago. He grew up in the UK. I liked that I could always get a copy here in our little dorp, Riebeek West, when the shop opened at 7am. Hendry enjoys the Cape Argus s focus on good, local stories. If I wanted to watch international news, I could turn on the television and put on BBC or Sky. I am a dedicated newspaper reader. Even with the internet, and news on the television, I still enjoy getting my fingers dirty on a newspaper. Cape Argus