In the Western Cape, an avian flu outbreak has almost decimated the poultry industry and, even though it posed no immediate threat to the health of humans, a lack of information had people on edge. People have been urged to approach high-risk foods with caution, after 36 people died and over 550 cases of listeriosis were confirmed. Gareth Lloyd Jones, chief commercial officer at Ecowize, a leading specialised hygiene and sanitation service provider for the food, pharmaceutical and healthcare industries, said the disease had no vaccine and was treatable only by antibiotics. “Listeria is a bacterium commonly found in nature - in water, soil, infected animals, human and animal faeces, raw and treated sewage, certain vegetables, effluent from poultry and meat processing facilities, decaying corn and soybeans, improperly fermented silage, and raw or unpasteurised milk.” Jones explained that in addition to taking extra precautions when dealing with food by washing one's hands more regularly, South Africans could avoid contamination by cooking food more thoroughly, opting for only pasteurised dairy products and storing food at safe temperatures. With at least 66% of the infections recorded in public hospitals, and 34% in private health facilities, he suggested that the source was likely to be a food product consumed by South Africans from all socio-economic groups. Although no humans were affected, the poultry industry was affected tremendously by the H5N8 strain of the highly pathogenic bird flu since July. The flu killed in excess of two million birds, mainly in the poultry industry. The outbreak saw the prices of some chicken products, including eggs, increase. However, Groote Schuur hospital had two special reasons to celebrate this year: the first was the 50th anniversary of the first human heart transplant, performed by Dr Christiaan Barnard on December 3, 1967. He performed the world’s first human-to-human heart transplant on patient Louis Washkansky, 53. And just last week the hospital became the first state hospital nationally to perform a bilateral sequential lung transplant. The procedure was performed on a 38-year-old woman who had severe airflow obstruction, secondary to childhood respiratory viral infection. After the transplant, doctors said she was now breathing comfortably with her new lungs. Strides were also made this year, in terms of the HIV/Aids epidemic. South Africa has the biggest life-saving treatment programme in the world, with more than four million people on medication. From 2010 to last year, new HIV infections among children were reduced by 56% in southern and eastern Africa, which is the region most affected by HIV. Health Minister Dr Aaron Motsoaledi said the first person in Khayelitsha started treatment in 2001 and now more than 420000 people were on treatment.  yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus