Cape Town - A fire safety pilot project is currently being run in Joe Slovo Park, Milnerton. The area’s existing informal structures will be painted with protective paint on the inside and brightly coloured acrylic paint on the outside. Each structure will also be fitted with a smoke detector to serve as an early warning system. If successful, the project will be extended to include approximately 1 030 informal residential structures located in Bekela, Damasco, Ekuphumleni, Kuyasa, Marikana, Mtshiniwam, Enkanini and Siyahlala. "We are in peak fire season. Every year a number of dwellings and livelihoods are lost as a result of fires that spread rapidly due to the density of informal settlements," said MayCo Member for Area North, Suzette Little. "This pilot project in Joe Slovo Park is one of the interventions aimed at preventing and mitigating fire disasters in informal settlements." Joe Slovo Park is well-located as it is surrounded by manufacturing industries and warehouses that offer employment opportunities. Additionally, it is in close proximity to various public transport routes which are within walking distance. These two major factors are what make the area attractive for residential purposes. While Joe Slovo Park was initially established as a formal residential area, informal residential structures can be found in backyards and on undeveloped land in the area. Little added: "The City has committed to building safer communities which is one of the key priorities of the Organisational Development and Transformation Plan. This fire-retardant paint project will help us to achieve this priority. Additionally, the smoke detectors will serve as an early warning system to the families in the event of a fire." The project will be phased in over the current and the next financial year. Approximately 45 Expanded Public Works Programme job opportunities will be created for the duration of this project. The Mayoral Urban Regeneration Programme team, supported by Subcouncil 3 and the Disaster Risk Management Department, were instrumental in getting this pilot project off the ground. Cape Argus 