The employees have been protesting against what they called unlawful labour practices. The village’s general manager, Dr Hannes Liebenberg, said an agreement was reached after tough negotiations  yesterday afternoon. “We signed an agreement on the payment of bonuses, recognition of the union and on disciplinary action." He said the strike that the union had decided to embark on delayed the process of the negotiations. “If you go on strike, you put yourself out of reach.” Liebenberg said the village was able to function despite some of the workers being on strike. “We had essential services that could run things. In all we found it easy to carry on with the essential services. We are glad that it's all sorted and things can return to  normal, because our residents are our asset.” The workers said some of them were dismissed without proper process being followed and were subjected to discrimination at work. Liebenberg said the matter of the dismissed workers was in arbitration with the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA). Jimmy Dithage, shop steward for the  Independent Commercial Hospitality and Allied Workers Union, which represented the workers said they had started protesting on November 27. “The new management is taking away our rights and doesn’t want workers to have a union. As soon as the new management started, the firing (started).  Four of our workers have been dismissed.” He said he was also dismissed after 10 years of service. He said three of the workers were fired on the spot for allegedly sleeping on the job and no process was followed. “I was there asking them what was really happening and they said I was insulting them for asking and they fired me.” Dithage said the new management had scrapped their bonuses. “We feel he (manager) is still using old regime (practices) and that is why we are on strike now.” Denise Plaatjies, a cleaner, said they wanted to see change. “They took our organisational rights away.  I want them to treat people equally.”  yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus