This comes after a commuter was electrocuted at the Nyanga station on Thursday while travelling on top of a carriage. “We appeal to commuters not to put their lives at risk by travelling on top of the train. Hanging on to the outside of the train or travelling in front of the drivers is dangerous, and commuters who do so risk life and limb, as this tragedy proved,” Walker said. Metrorail spokesperson Riana Scott said the Emergency Medical Services and SAPS responded to the incident after overhead power was switched off. “The residual effect of the casualty was delays in excess of 60 minutes. There was temporary closure of both the Kapteinsklip and Khayelitsha lines. There was a limited bus service between Philippi and Langa, and the train shuttle operated between Philippi and Chris Hani stations,” Scott said. The incident took place the same morning that Mayco Member of Transport and Urban Development Brett Herron travelled by train along the notorious central line. “I was appalled and shocked by what I have seen and experienced. There is no dignity and no respect for our commuters. There were no Metrorail staff on site, and no communication. Hundreds of women and men had to sit and wait in hope for a train to arrive,” Herron said. He added that while trains were delaying, commuters told him heartbreaking stories of their efforts to get to work and back every day. “I was witness to the desperation, the frustration, anger and fear that many commuters experience because of the very real possibility that they may lose their jobs if they arrive late for work yet again. It was unbearable to witness, and it pained me. A young man also lost his life on a train that passed us.” He was convinced the City had acted urgently to get the rail service under its management. “The City of Cape Town must become the rail authority. On October 26, 2017, council approved the business plan for the assignment of the urban rail function to the City.  "The City’s Transport and Urban Development Authority will now approach the national government for the necessary approvals and funding for taking over commuter rail in an incremental and structural manner,” Herron said.   okuhle.hlati@inl.co.za  Cape Argus