It seems to me that we are in the situation that justifies this label. From the beginning, whoever was going to win the ANC presidency, we were not being offered a choice at all. I do not wish to spoil this season of joy and goodwill. RELATED: Literally Yours: From latch-key kids to growing up on a video diet We are sporting fat bonuses, the holidays are here, office party done without too much lasting damage, school year over and graduations at universities miraculously achieved despite monumental cock-ups, stay-aways and arson. Let us, like Charles Dickens, construe a season of personal and social wellness. We had two persons of dubious political pedigree poised to either save or destroy us for the next two election cycles. One has emerged victorious. The salvation we seek does not lie there. The ANC will always be relevant as an organ of liberation. As for governance, they have neither the experience, nor do they show a willingness to learn how things should be done. The resentment of prior hurt sullies the efforts at original thinking and thinking out of the box. So what is left? Dealing with the horror of another stone-last placement in the PIRLS (Progress in International Reading Literacy Study) exercise and free education at tertiary level that will set us back R12 billion. Both of these issues require a serious re-think. The low literacy (non) performance opens questions about cultural and linguistic bias in tests of this sort. The literacy tests are thinly disguised assessments of fluency in English. As for the free education, Zuma wants to go out as the guy who made it happen, for those who believe in free lunches. It is our duty, given these grim alternatives, to construe a nation of thinkers and nurturers who will be unafraid of outside opinion. We don’t need foreign agencies to establish our fiscal viability and status. We don’t need outside agencies to keep on embarrassing us with unrealistic linguistic demands and then calling us “illiterate”. We don’t need to budget for billions of rand to appease hot-headed students who practise nothing but demands and deliver close-to-zero in class. We need to sing our joyous songs of self-affirmation, tell our coaches to punish players who are afraid of winning, explain to the nation that ability is not race-related and teach our children that you only get out of life as much as you put in. We need to plug the holes through which our wealth is being leaked to safe overseas tax-havens. We need to wish each other well, not only now but throughout the year. To paraphrase the little well-wisher in Dickens’s novel: May God bless us all! actabisher@gmail.com * Literally Yours is a weekly column from Cape Argus reader Alex Tabisher. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus