Remember the days of writing cheques to purchase our groceries? Going through the paper invoices and bank statements at the end of every month? Addressing envelopes to post cheques to the shopkeepers and the city council? Receiving that dreaded bank statement in the letterbox? Of course we are free of all that now. A few clicks on the keyboard and it’s all taken care of. We no longer need cheques because we simply slip a card into the machine and tap in a PIN. So simple! It’s like carrying your whole financial system in your wallet. The downside of this is that we have put our whole financial system in one basket. Our wallet. If you lose that wallet (or have it swiped by a friendly passing mugger) you are in deep doo-doo. In the bad old days a mugger could take all the money in your pockets and possibly steal your shoes as well. In the bright new electronic age he grabs your whole life in one hit - your bank cards, your identity card, your driver’s licence, your library card, your medical aid card and probably a few loyalty cards as well as the photo of your cat. And your cell phone, of course. It doesn’t even have to be a mugger. It could simply be a careless moment in which you put the wallet down and can’t remember where. At the tills? The coffee shop? The garage? Under the seat of your car? In days before our cyber world we may have lost a cheque book, or your driver’s licence, or a few banknotes. Each loss was irritating, but not disastrous. Today, with your whole life in your wallet, when you lose it you have a long bumpy road ahead of you. First cancel your bank cards fast, before somebody else uses them, and apply for new ones. Next apply for a new driver’s licence, for which you need new photographs. Then you will need new loyalty cards, library card and medical aid card. When you lose your wallet you may as well put your whole life on hold and resign yourself to a few days of frustration. Cancel dates because you can’t pay for your dinner or movie tickets. In any case you can’t go anywhere because you have no driver’s licence. And you think that’s bad? I’ll tell you what’s bad. Three days after losing your wallet and cancelling all your cards, you find the wallet had slipped down behind a sofa cushion. That’s bad. Last Laugh A young boy was staying at a hotel with his parents and the manager found him staring at a kudu head mounted on the wall of the lounge. “Why do you have that head on the wall?” the boy asked. “Because it’s such a beautiful creature,” said the manager. “My mom is beautiful too,” said the boy, “but we just put up a photo of her.”  * Biggs is a daily columnist for the Cape Argus ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus