I agree strongly that we need a social movement that cuts across political ideology, religion, culture, class and race. We do need to be united on key issues like ending corruption, reducing inequality and poverty and creating a new socio-economic compact with people who are not involved in politics. I agree with the second half of his letter. But I disagree that Dr Makhosi Khoza has made the wrong move; his letter is similar to several pieces, including recently in Business Day and other publications. It is clear the ANC has become a third phase of rainbow elite colonialism, and no longer cares about the poor and marginalised after the 200 years of English, and 50 years of Afrikaans rule. RELATED: ANC slams Makhosi Khoza's party over logo DA leader Mmusi Maimane does very well leading the privileged English and Afrikaans community. But I don’t believe his party can unite all South Africans and indeed appeal widely to Xhosa, Zulu and other first language speakers, particularly over the next five to eight years, and without first addressing the inbred classism his party represents. EFF leader Julius Malema has achieved much, but many people are unsure he will be able to resist the R5 billion or R10bn President Jacob Zuma will no doubt offer him to deliver his voters to an “ANC Alliance" at the 2019 elections. Cope, nor any of the other smaller parties, for reasons correct or not, do not appear to offer the solution . And given the silent coup that has been largely carried out by the Zuma state capture team, we do not have the luxury of waiting for the perfect “life partner”. I seek a leader of integrity, and a commitment to developing South Africa for the benefit of all South Africans, particularly the poor and previously marginalised and abused by the present model where wealth is built at the expense of underpaid workers. I would happily be led by former finance minister Pravin Gordon, former public protector Thuli Madonsela, Derek Hanekom, Zackie Achmat or even by a student leader soon, and many others, and in the absence of another better option. I suggest we should all seriously consider Dr Khoza as an option. I think we may be surprised by how many frustrated South Africans we are, and by who ends up joining her. I would not be at all surprised if she ends up taking over the kingmaker role for 2019 . * Michael Pickstone-Taylor, Franschhoek. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus