Desai joined the staff at the high school as a young teacher after qualifying at the UCT with BA, B.Ed and BComm degrees. Desai’s older brother, Abu Desai, who was one of the first teachers at Sinton during the 1950s, reminded visitors at the Rondebosch Medical Centre, that “the first principal of Sinton Franklin Joshua closed the school on the last day, went home and passed on. Isn’t it something that he, too, died on the last day of school?” After the death of Joshua in 1975 and Sinton’s last win in the A-Section in 1976, followed by the riots in June, Khalid had to make the difficult decision to leave Sinton out of athletics in 1977 in order to focus on the academic programme. On September 17, 1985, Desai led teachers, pupils and parents as they protested against the government orders that more than 400 schools should close as a result of civil unrest.  He was arrested and detained in 1986.  Reminiscing on the memories made with her husband of 49 years, Janap Desai, 76, described him as a wonderful man. “He was generous beyond compare. The life that he gave to me was something I will always treasure.  “He always gave back to the community.  “After his retirement we started a soup kitchen where we were able to feed 4 000 children every Thursday and even through his illness, he still persisted on ploughing back. That was just the type of person he was. “He definitely left a legacy behind and I will miss him dearly. Things will not be the same without him,” she said. His sister, Raghmat Jaffer, 91, described her brother as an extraordinary person. “Khalid was the youngest in the family of 10 children.  “He was a very studious and private young boy growing up. This sort of behaviour carried out throughout his life. He would rather opt for peace than confront people.  “We were very close and that is why for me, it is very hard to say goodbye.”  Many of the old schoolteachers and ex-pupils of Sinton came to pay their respects at the Janaza of Desai. Some memorable lines from him still echo, “You boy there” to a pupil dodging him for bunking classes,” said a former pupil of Alexander Sinton High School. Cape Argus 