It kicks off tomorrow and runs until Sunday. Rugby lovers travelling to attend the game can expect heavy traffic congestion as well as road closures. “Temporary road closures will be in place around the Cape Town Stadium to accommodate the thousands of fans making their way to the games this weekend. “In addition, the City has put in place a detailed transport plan to facilitate the ease of movement to the stadium. Rugby fans are urged to make use of the MyCiTi event shuttle, which will depart from two bus stations this year: the Civic Centre and the Thibault bus station. This service will be free to event ticket holders,” said Richard Coleman, City spokesperson for  traffic services. The roads that will be closed on match days are Granger Bay Boulevard, Vlei Road and Fritz Sonnenberg Road. Parking is 
also set to be extremely tricky for spectators. SA Rugby said: “The best place to park would be in the CBD south of Buitengragt, which is free after 1pm on Saturday and all day Sunday.” Off-street parking is available at numerous parking garages in the CBD, such as at the CTICC, Ryk Tulbagh Square, Fountain Hotel, Picbel Parkade, Mandela Rhodes and Plein Park. Dedicated parking has been allocated on DF Malan Drive for those with disabilities, who wish to use the stadium shuttle. Only people with an official disability permit from the City will be allowed to park in this dedicated parking area. The two-day event is set to be a big boost to the city’s economy, injecting millions and creating jobs. Last year, the city received R434 million and around 1 400 direct jobs were created. “Sporting events are also an integral part of our efforts to build an inclusive city, as they bring people from all over the country together united in their love for sport, creating the extraordinary vibe that only the Sevens can bring,” mayor Patricia de Lille said. The weekend is also set to be filled with excitement and loads of entertainment with local artists performing. Among some of the artists set to make an appearance is Idols SA winner Paxton Fielies, beat box genius George Avakian, Heartboxing hitmaker Jimmy Nevis and Whitney Houston imitator Belinda Davids. There will be activities to keep the 
kids busy like the SA Rugby Kiddies Village and Club V that will be running from 
11am to 7pm on both days of the tournament. Entrance is free for all children between the ages of two up to and including 10. There will be a variety of options available, such as a Castle Lager beer garden, Woolworths, Nandos, J&M Biltong and Wembley Roadhouse. Gates will open at 9am on both days.  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus