Cape Town - Experts are warning beachgoers to expect higher tides and rip currents this festive season as the full moon is expected to be at its peak come January 2.  Bathers have also been warned to be on the lookout for sharks due to warmer water temperatures brought on by the full moon. The founder of the African Surfers Foundation and manager of Smithy Surfboards, Ryan Smith, said 2018 was expected to have the longest full moon cycle, which would inevitably attract more sharks to the shore. “The full moon attracts the sharks towards the shores because of the high tides. There is a mixture between high and low tides, and this is generally expected to last for about four hours every day. “I’ve noticed strange shark activity in the False Bay region and would advise beachgoers not to swim there. If they do find themselves there, I would suggest they consult with lifeguards at all times and stay closer to larger groups of people,” he said. Shark Spotters chief executive Sarah Waries said that although the weather didn’t have much of an effect on shark activity, the water temperature might, so beachgoers should be cautious. “Every year we see a significant increase in shark sightings in spring and summer, which coincides with school holidays and the period when our beaches are busiest with water users. During this time, sharks change their diet from their winter feeding pattern of hunting seals around Seal Island, and generally move inshore where they search along the coastline for prey such as yellowtail, smaller sharks and rays. “I would advise beach goers to rather move towards the Fish Hoek area where there is a shark exclusion net. “Though there haven't been any shark attacks in the past three years, it is important to remember that False Bay has the second largest aggregation of sharks in the world with nearly 2000 sharks spotted over a decade,” she said.  Meanwhile, the National Sea Rescue Institute has confirmed five drownings in Cape Town, with the latest incident in Soetwater, near Kommetjie. “CPR was performed on a 63-year-old man at an education camp in Soetwater, near Kommetjie," the NSRI said in a statement. "The man had been diving and was later recovered after he was found floating unresponsive in the water. “Bystanders had initiated CPR and CMR (Cape Medical Response) dispatched an ambulance and response paramedics and activated NSRI Kommetjie. “CMR paramedics assisted by NSRI medics conducted extensive CPR efforts but sadly despite extensive CPR efforts and after all efforts to resuscitate the 63-year-old man from Athlone were exhausted on the scene, the man has been declared deceased,” the statement said.   argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus