UCT is working with partner organisations in southern, west and east Africa as well as India to investigate how to adapt to climate change in semi-arid regions. We identified four types of changes that can be made to adapt to water scarcity: introducing new practices or technologies, such as wastewater reuse; doing more of what we’re already doing, for example installing rainwater tanks at people’s homes; changing the way water is governed, for example integrated watershed management and more consultative and equal water allocation; and changing social values and attitudes. By  combining these interventions, there is a better chance of managing water sustainably for domestic and agricultural use. The introduction of new technologies and new practices is crucial to adapt to water scarcity. Desalinating seawater is one technological innovation. But it uses a lot of energy. Another example is Goreangab water reclamation plant in Windhoek, Namibia, which produces 21 million litres of potable water per day from wastewater. To use scarce water more effectively in agriculture conservation, tillage using water harvesting furrows has been introduced to Namibia, as have early maturing varieties of millet that are better adapted than staple crops like maize. To improve the availability of water, it is important to scale up the use of practices that reduce demand, increase availability and increase efficient use of water. For example, more water can be made available through capturing, storing and using rainwater. Some homes in Cape Town are now harvesting rainwater from their roofs. Rainwater harvesting has the potential to reduce water demand by more than 20% if water is used for multiple purposes in the household. In towns, rainwater can also be harvested from storm water drains and in rural areas water can be captured in dams for irrigation and watering animals. Water can also be stored underground. For example, in Bermuda all houses are built with rainwater storage under them. Better seasonal forecasting and early warning information can also play a huge role in preparing for water-scarce times. For example, in India tailored information products like crop calendars and interactive mobile phone apps, incorporating local knowledge, have improved forecasting. How local authorities and governments manage water - and the factors that have a major impact on water supply - is hugely important. An example of integrated watershed management is dealing with problems like alien trees. Trees like wattles and eucalyptus that grow in water catchment areas use huge amounts of water. Their removal can increase the water available in catchment dams. Another example is how local authorities enforce water restrictions. Do they do this fairly? Do they penalise excessive users? Incentives also work, like publicly praising water savers and giving people the technology they need. This can include introducing smart water meters, as has happened in Cape Town, or providing rainwater tanks to enable people to store rainwater. At an individual level, a change in attitude towards water use would make a huge difference. Gardeners, for example, can use indigenous drought-tolerant plants. People can also save water by having short showers and capturing water from showers and washing machines to use for flushing toilets. Dealing with water scarcity is a global challenge and as the climate changes and as populations grow, difficult changes must be made. * Dr Dian Spear is the southern Africa lead, Adaptation at Scale in Semi-Arid Regions, at UCT. * This article was originally published in The Conversation Cape Argus