Listeria is a bacterial pathogen which can trigger diarrhoea. It is usually spread through the ingestion of contaminated food products and has caused several deaths in the Western Cape and the rest of the country.  The listeria bacterium can survive in normal temperatures associated with refrigeration (4°C).  Gareth-Lloyd Jones, chief commercial officer at Ecowize - South Africa’s leading specialised hygiene and sanitation service provider for the food, pharmaceutical and health-care industries - said anyone can be affected.  “Foods which are most commonly identified as high-risk for listeria infection range from improperly pasteurised dairy products such as milk, cheese and ice cream, to raw vegetables, poultry, fermented raw-meat sausages, and cooked or ‘ready-to-eat’ deli meat.” He stressed that proper hygiene when preparing food was essential in minimising the chance of contracting the disease.  “It is essential that South Africans become more aware of the risks associated with food contamination and that they practise caution when handling food products, not only during times of disease outbreaks such as this, but in their everyday lives.”  He said while anyone can be affected, certain groups are at a higher risk.  “This includes newborns, the elderly and immunocompromised individuals such as pregnant women and their unborn babies as well as people who have existing conditions such as HIV, diabetes, cancer and chronic liver or kidney disease.” The City said it was on high alert and increasing efforts to prevent further outbreaks of the disease. Mayoral committee member for safety and security JP Smith said: “The main preventive measure is to always ensure that good basic hygiene practices are followed.  “Our environmental health practitioners have been requested to visit the homes of people diagnosed with listeriosis. The City Health laboratory is now also equipped to analyse listeria as part of the sampling regime and will focus on higher-risk foods by means of a sampling project from time to time. We will also ramp up our health promotion efforts in communities and at clinics.” By the end of last month, 33 cases and four deaths caused by listeria were recorded in the metropole.  Food safety expert Dr Lucia Anelich said the source of the infection was not known. She said the best way to avoid listeriosis was to cook food thoroughly and to ensure a clean working environment and proper hygiene.    yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus