Cape Town - The festive season is right on our doorstep, and many of us are still puzzled about what to buy our loved ones, friends and partners without breaking the bank.  Don't panic; we've broken it down for you with the season's hottest gifts.  Toddlers and kids:  Shopping for children can be very expensive you could end up paying upwards of R1000 for a toy. Educational gifts with longevity that inspire creativity are best for young kids, so here are some budget gift ideas:  LEGO Classic - Supplement Bright LEGO is an evergreen favourite, and they're fun and educational at the same time. LEGO Classic comes in 20 different colours and more than 300 pieces. You can build anything, letting your imagination run wild.  Cost: From R249.00
Find it here. Fisher Price Laugh and Learn Smart Stage Laptop Digital is the future, so it's a good idea to get your kids tech-savvy from a young age. This gift is affordable and interactive and will keep your toddler occupied for hours. The computer is bright and has numbers on the keyboard, and also helps teach your toddler their first words. It's also battery-powered, so no need to worry about tripping over cables. Cost: From R499
Find it here. Hatchimals Surprise These don't exactly qualify as "budget" gifts but they are the hottest kids gift of the season. They're taking the toy world by storm. It's about the size of an ostrich egg and hatches two adorable Hatchimals. The adorable twins are hidden away in the egg and each twin has its own personality. The twins can talk, dance, sing and interact with one another like siblings. Cost: From R1 249
Find it here. Teens: Shopping for a teenager can be extremely hard - they tend to be unpredictable and extremely indecisive. Books and tech are good options, and you can't go wrong with the following options. Turtles All The Way Down  Romance plays a big part in any teenager’s life and author John Green truly understands the massive role it plays. His much anticipated new novel Turtles All The Way Down tells the story of a high school student living with Obsessive Compulsive Disorder who is searching for a fugitive billionaire. It’s Green’s latest book after the success of his critically acclaimed book The Fault In Our Stars. What makes it the perfect book is the fact that Green tells a very personal story about mental illness and ties in friendship and the value of life. Cost: R209
Find it here. Huawei Mate 10 Huawei has really upped its game with its smartphones and its new addition really pulls out all the stops. The smartphone giant recently launched its Huawei Mate 10 which is an extremely sexy phone. It's on the pricey side, but it delivers incredible performance, and has a great desirability factor. Cost: R14 109
Find it here. Polaroid Snap Instant Camera Our teens are selfie kings and queens, and what better way to capture the moment than with this perfect blend of nostalgia and modern technology? The slim-look camera is the ultimate summer trend and is easy to carry around and store. Cost: R1 689 For Him and Her: Gifting for your loved one can be incredibly personal, but what if you haven't been together long enough to know exactly what he/she wants? Here are some great options. Nomination Bracelets These are great accessory gifts because not only do they look great and go with anything, but they are also customisable, allowing you to personalise your gift and add links for every special occasion in the future.  Cost: From R225 for the base bracelet; add-on links from R450 Pamper products
A good pamper voucher goes a long way, but don't rule pamper products out if you're operating on a budget. Bath bombs, luxurious body butters, bathroom accessories and much more can be bought at a range of stores from Sorbet to Body Shop and almost all retailers. Cost: Bath bombs from R50; pamper bag gift sets from R159 Kelle Square Scarf You can't go wrong with a neck accessory. Scarves can be light or heavy, and come in a huge range of colours and lengths. They're also a hot fashion item at the moment. Cost: R99 Happy Socks: Origami gift box Upstyle your drab grey business suit with a splash of colour and personality by covering your feet and ankles in edgy, sexy Happy Socks. This Origami Gift Box set features four pairs of patterned socks. Cost: R499 Freedom by Tommy Hilfiger The latest fragrance for men from Tommy Hilfiger will leave you weak at the knees. It's designed for “everyday” use, with a fragrance profile including ocean notes and watercress and is extremely refreshing.  Cost: R739 PU Backpack Attache briefcases are boring. Free up your hands for better things like carrying a hot beverage or catching up on your social media feeds on your smartphone while carrying your laptop and the rest of your goodies in this stylish backpack. It's got plenty of compartments and zips to make mobile storage and luggage a breeze.  Cost: R499   marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus