Cape Town - The DA’s top brass have given Mayor Patricia de Lille an early Christmas gift in the form of an extension until the new year to defend her job. 
James Selfe, chairperson of the DA’s federal executive, told the Cape Argus that De Lille had requested an extension, which was granted. “The matter will now be heard in the new year. I would not like to speculate on anything, but the decision would have to be taken by the City caucus. "We have had similar cases in Knysna where the caucus decided for itself,” he said. Read: #DeLille plans to defend her hard-won reputation      #DeLille: Where did it all go wrong? Asked about a planned motion of no confidence in De Lille, he said it was too early to speculate. Grant Twigg, DA metro regional chairperson, said in reply to a Facebook post: “I really don’t know why some people get so many extensions, while others just have to accept what comes their way." The DA’s federal executive announced on Thursday that De Lille would be suspended from party activities - pending investigations - and that it had asked her to give reasons why she should not resign as mayor. She had been given until Monday to respond to several allegations against her. De Lille and her spokesperson, Zara Nicholson, did want to comment on the matter. Selfe also gave City council chief whip Shaun August and Speaker Dirk Smit until Monday to provide reasons as why they should not be fired from their positions. They too asked for extensions which had been granted. A probe into allegations of maladministration conducted by a DA subcommittee, led by DA chief whip in Parliament John Steenhuisen, has been concluded and will soon be presented. Also read: #DeLille: I am not going to quit The subcommittee was established in September to look into tensions and political management in the City of Cape Town. Also in September it emerged that De Lille ordered the shutting down of the City’s special investigations unit. This move was one of the several matters focused on by the subcommittee. It had also resulted in a spat between her and mayoral committee member for safety, security and social services JP Smith, who controlled the unit. A separate independent investigation into allegations of wrongdoing, including those of maladministration, within the City of Cape Town is also being conducted. This investigation relates to allegations of corruption discussed in a November special confidential council meeting. In the council meeting, Craig Kesson, executive director in De Lille’s office, claimed that De Lille and City manager Achmat Ebrahim covered up corruption involving Melissa Whitehead, transport commissioner of Cape Town. This involved an amount of R43 million, Kesson claimed. The deadline for this probe is December 29. A full report will then be presented to the council. Cape Argus