This was based on a survey conducted at 254 clinics across the country, including 30 in the Western Cape. The monitoring tool survey was to evaluate the state of the public health facilities that have been adopted by TAC branches. People were asked to answer 23 questions which addressed issues of staffing, sanitation and waiting times. According to the responses the TAC said that at 69% of facilities surveyed people had to wait for more than an hour to be seen;  while at 81 facilities - 34 percent - the waiting time surpassed two hours. In 160 facilities the waiting room was up to standard, but 81 clinics did not have enough seats in the waiting area. Waiting areas in 202 facilities were classified as clean while waiting areas at 48 facilities were classified as not. Of the 247 clinics surveyed on the state of their toilets; the TAC found that four had no ablution facilities, while three were excluded due to the uncertainty of data. In total about 55% of clinics nationally had clean functional toilets while the rest were in a terrible state. “In one of the most notable findings, less than half of facilities were considered to have sufficient staff. About 122 of 242 facilities were classified as not having enough staff; 12 facilities were excluded from this analysis due to concerns about the data.  “At the very least, this finding shows that a substantial number of people dependent on the public healthcare system perceive facilities as being understaffed,” TAC general secretary Anele Yawa said. She said that based on these results the healthcare system was deeply dysfunctional. Provincial health spokesperson Marika Champion said the Western Cape welcomed the feedback.  She said the provincial department conducted its own client satisfaction survey (CSS) annually based on criteria determined by the national government. From the Ideal Clinic review that was conducted in September results showed that 70% of all facilities were clean.  Champion conceded that the waiting times of clients was longer than they would like, but this was due to the high number of patients with a high quadruple burden of disease.  She said 96.3%  of the posts were filled. “We are always looking at ways to improve the patients' experience. Some innovations that have been implemented are appointment systems, an alternative route for dispensing chronic medication and improvements in cleaning contract management at facilities,” said Champion.   zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus