We are at an unprecedented moment in the global response. For the first time in modern history, we have the opportunity to change the course of a pandemic by controlling it without a vaccine or a cure. What once seemed impossible is now possible. While great progress has been made, in South Africa too many people are still at risk of contracting the disease - especially young women who have significantly higher HIV infection rates than men. Through DREAMS and South Africa’s campaign “She Conquers”, the US is partnering with national and local leaders to tackle the socio-economic challenges that make young women vulnerable. And this year, we are placing a special emphasis on combating gender-based violence (GBV), which robs girls and young women of the chance to meet their full potential. It leaves them to struggle with potentially life-threatening outcomes such as HIV infection, as well as damage to their dignity and a loss of security.  It is not just girls; GBV also affects men and boys, both directly as survivors of violence and indirectly through the cycle of violence. The US is committed to partnering with the government, NGOs, and activists who fight day in and day out to prevent GBV and address the physical and emotional consequences suffered by those who experience it. Just this week, we hosted the “#GirlSafe Youth Media Change Makers Expo” in Gauteng where DREAMS and “She Conquers” participants from South Africa’s highest burdened HIV/Aids regions came together for important discussions about GBV prevention. They developed videos and multimedia content that are being posted on the US Embassy social media platforms throughout the international 16 Days of Activism against Gender Based Violence (November 25-December 10). Please visit us on Twitter and Facebook at USEmbassySA to see how South Africa’s next generation of leaders is working to combat GBV in their communities. We believe that through campaigns like #GirlSafe, we are helping to advance the rights of women and girls and also supporting South Africa’s steps toward an Aids-free generation. We are doing so as a part of our broader efforts to bring an end to HIV/Aids in South Africa, on the continent, and around the world. The Pepfar theme for World Aids Day 2017 is “Increasing Impact through Transparency, Accountability, and Partnerships”. In South Africa and elsewhere, we rely on these elements to increase our impact and move epidemics from crisis toward control. We currently have a historic opportunity to accelerate progress toward controlling, and ultimately ending, the HIV/Aids epidemic. Transparency, accountability, and partnerships are essential to reaching these goals. In South Africa, we at the US Embassy are exceptionally proud of the US President’s Emergency Plan for Aids Relief’s (Pepfar) support towards the national Aids response. Pepfar resources are heavily invested in 27 districts facing the highest burden of HIV in alignment with South Africa’s National Strategic Plan for HIV, TB and STIs (2017-2022). Pepfar funds are also helping deliver potentially life-saving health services in South Africa’s other 25 districts. This means in every district, American support is helping South Africans lead longer, healthier lives. Pepfar funding over the past 12 months has enabled HIV testing and counselling for more than 13 million people and lifesaving antiretroviral treatment (ART) for more than 4 million. Pepfar has contributed to the care and support of more than 570 000 orphans and vulnerable children and allowed more than 250 000 pregnant women to receive ART for prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV. Also this year, more than 460 000 men have benefited from voluntary medical male circumcision, which has been shown to reduce men’s risk of acquiring HIV by 60%. We are also committed to supporting research in partnership with South African scientists to develop new HIV prevention technologies and even HIV vaccines that could in the near future be used by young women and men to protect them from the virus. All told, the US government has invested $5.6 billion (R76.7bn) to support South Africa’s HIV/Aids response since 2004. At the 2017 UN General Assembly, US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson launched the Pepfar Strategy for Accelerating HIV/Aids Epidemic Control (2017-2020).  The strategy demonstrates both the courage of our convictions and the boldness of our ambitions. It reaffirms that the US government, through Pepfar, will continue to support HIV/Aids efforts towards achieving epidemic control in more than 50 countries, including South Africa, ensuring access to HIV services by all populations, including the most vulnerable and at-risk groups. We are proud to be acknowledged as a leader in the global HIV/Aids response.  Our work reflects the goodwill, compassion, and generosity of the American people. But no one country or entity alone can end the HIV/Aids pandemic. Here in South Africa, we partner with the government, the private sector, philanthropic organisations, multilateral institutions, civil society and faith-based organisations, people living with HIV, and many others in this important work. We have a shared commitment to bringing an end to HIV/Aids. Through transparency, accountability, and the power of partnerships, we will work towards combating GBV in South Africa’s most vulnerable communities, helping to ensure South Africa achieves an Aids-free generation. * Jessye Lapenn is chargé d’affaires, US Embassy Pretoria. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus