Cape Town - Metrorail's technical teams have managed to repair the twenty-three track boxes destroyed by vandals on Sunday. Due to their efforts, the suspension of the Khayelitsha-Kapteinsklip-Bishop Lavis line has been lifted. But, only a limited service is available, according to the commuter rail operator. "A limited service is able to operate on this high volume corridor after sustained theft and vandalism of safety-critical infrastructure forced closure of the lines late Sunday night. Full recovery is not yet possible," Metrorail said in a statement. "Recovery teams discovered worked non-stop to repair, replace and protect the repairs under the threatening presence of vandals patrolling the area near Bontheuwel where they worked," it said. Regional Manager Richard Walker said teams were often traumatised by the constant hovering of individuals who brazenly started digging up cables not far from where repairs were being done, only to scatter temporarily when confronted by armed guards. "Many of these individuals are obviously armed and were not fazed by the presence of security," Walker said. He commended the technicians and security teams for focusing on the job at hand despite the difficult circumstances. He also expressed his gratitude to commuters for their patience and thanked stakeholders for understanding the conditions under which the suspension was necessary. Walker thanked Golden Arrow Bus Services who provided loyal train commuters with alternative transport said Metrorail management appreciated the messages of support stakeholders. "Although the arrangement came at an extra cost it was done in consideration of weekly and monthly ticket holders," Walker said. "Any threat to safe operating conditions such as vandalism/theft can force us to suspend services again." He again appealed to communities to help protect vital assets by working with police and Metrorail. "Every bit of information can potentially assist in the culprits being brought to book. "We need communities to be our eyes and ears; consider reporting your civic duty and do so at any of the numbers provided." Full anonymity of the information sources are guaranteed and a reward of up to R25 000 is payable for any information leading to a conviction. Contact details
Metrorail Protection Services hot-line - 021 449 4336/5056
RRPU Cape Town (platform 1) - 021 443 4325
RRPU Bellville - 021 941 6800
RRPU Philippi/Stock Road - 021 370 1011
RRPU Retreat - 021 710 5129
RRPU Radio Control/OPS room - 021 449 4309/10
SAPS CrimeStop - 0860 10111
SMS Crimeline - 32211  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus