In the Cape Metro, maintenance defaulters collectively owe more than R2.5 million in money they committed to when court orders were made. The maintenance process includes various role players such as the prosecution, judiciary, the sheriff of the court and the police. RELATED: 'Courts abusing children' The department instituted a turnaround time of 90 days to finalise maintenance cases as opposed to the six months proposed by Child Maintenance Difficulties in SA (CMDSA). Through Operation Isondlo the department remains committed to a turnaround in the delivery of maintenance services at our courts. For clarification purposes, the specifics of the Rene Fahrenfort maintenance case are: Ms Fahrenfort  filed a complaint for failure to comply with a divorce court order at the Wynberg Magistrate’s Court on September 22, 2015. In terms of the final divorce court order, the defendant must pay R3500 for one minor child. The complainant requested an amendment in terms of maintenance owed to her on September 29, 2015, and the arrears was calculated to R16158. The defendant was summonsed to appear on November 26, 2015 but could not be traced, and therefore the matter was not enrolled. On January 26 last year, the accused was absent and a warrant of arrest was issued. The matter was postponed for trial to July 20 last year, after the prosecutor indicated on June 2 last year that the prosecution needed certain bank statements and other investigations to be done by the maintenance investigator. The matter was again enrolled on August 10 last year. The investigation concluded that the accused has no immovable property according to a deeds report and no companies or businesses registered in his name. The prosecutor provisionally withdrew the matter against the accused on April 6. Ms Fahrenfort was again offered the option of a civil remedy,  which she declined. The complainant was offered the option of having the matter re-enrolled last September, and she responded that she will think about it and come back to court. Based on the aforementioned, it is evident that Rene Fahrenfort was offered assistance on more than one occasion but chose not to make use of that assistance. Operation Isondlo as eluded to earlier further ensures that the administration of the maintenance system and enforcement of court orders related to child support is dealt with more efficiently. The department continues to strengthen its effort in making access to justice a reality through giving effect to the enforcement of civil execution remedies in maintenance matters and to locating untraced alleged maintenance defaulters. It is further noted with dismay that the DA spokesperson for women in the Presidency notes that the system is broken and that the department does not seem to support women. * Mthunzi Mhaga is the Spokesperson for the Ministry of Justice and Correctional Services ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers.  Cape Argus