“This was absolutely spectacular. Basically we have broken it down into three different questions and it’s all about honouring everyone who was involved,”  said Heather Coombes, assistant to the head of the hospital’s cardiac unit.  Among the discussions was about what happened after the first transplant. “We have established something called the Cape Town Declaration along with all the medical experts and it’s a commitment from everyone,” Coombes said. The declaration will specifically focus on middle-income countries which do not have enough heart surgeries. “We have all come together from countries in  Asia, America and China to form an umbrella structure to endorse a centre of excellence in middle-income countries,”  said Professor Peter Zilla, head of the Christiaan Barnard Department for Cardiothoracic Surgery at Groote Schuur. The declaration will strive to bring the benefits of heart surgery to the estimated 33 million people worldwide who are affected by rheumatic heart disease. Many of these patients will die without surgery. Fifty years ago on December 3, 1967, Christiaan Barnard performed the first human to human heart transplant at Groote Schuur Hospital on patient Louis Washkansky, who survived the operation for 18 days. However, he succumbed to pneumonia as he was taking immunosuppressive drugs. It  put South Africa on the map and in recent days to commemorate the occasion the hospital has been reliving the events of 1967. Since then there have been tremendous changes at the hospital. “Surgically, nothing has changed but we have changed the treatment patients receive after a heart transplant, especially the rejection treatment compared to 1967,” Zilla said. He was 12 in 1967 and said he remembers the day when he heard about the first heart transplant. “I remember coming home from school late one afternoon and I walked into the living room and my parents were listening to the news on the radio and we were mesmerised.”  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus