Cape Town - Child rights activists are calling for tighter legislation that will give life imprisonment to people abusing kids over a long period resulting in death.  This is after 39-year-old Anthea Kleynhans was sentenced to 13 years for the murder of her boyfriend’s three-year-old daughter, Lache Stols. She was sentenced to seven years for the abuse, two years will run concurrently, in effect serving 18 years' jail time. Lache was beaten to death with a belt and hand by Kleynhans. Kleynhans admitted that the abuse occurred over a period of four months. Lache died of blunt force trauma. Meanwhile, the mother and stepfather of three-year-old Poppie van der Merwe were convicted of murder by the Gauteng High Court. Poppie and her five-year-old brother were abused over a period of eight months. Poppie died in October last year. Sentencing proceedings will start in February. Also in court is Abigail Ruiters, and her boyfriend, Ameerudien Peters, charged with the rape and murder of 18-month-old Jeremiah Ruiters. According to testimony, the child suffered abuse over a period of time. Murders and child murders are treated under the same law and the minimum prescribed sentence is 15 years' imprisonment. Child rights activist are proposing that legislation is tightened especially when the murder is an end result of abuse of over a period. Valdi Van Reenen-Le Roux, director at the Trauma Centre for Survivors of Violence and Torture, said a life sentence was needed. “The murder of children should carry a life sentence since the crime has robbed the family, community and broader society of an innocent life, but there must be effective rehabilitation programmes too.” Van Reenen-Le Roux said victims of this often struggle. “Minimum sentencing defeats the ends of justice since victims have no guarantee of non-repetition when the perpetrator is released. Without evidence-based rehabilitation programmes, the perpetrator may not have changed his/her behaviour,” she said. Shaheema McLeod, director of the Saartjie Baartman Centre, said the prescribed minimum sentence was lenient.  “These individuals have, over a period of time, inflicted pain and unspeakable torture - on a defenceless child. In cases of repeated child abuse, there is clear intent to harm and often knowledge that one’s actions could cause serious injury or death. With a 15-year sentence, the perpetrator will be eligible for parole after serving half of that time - seven years and six months is hardly sufficient punishment for having taken a life.” Siyabulela Monakali of Ilitha Labantu said legislation needs to be revisited.  “The judicial system needs to re-evaluate the ways it addresses cases of abuse.” Eric Ntabazalila, regional spokesperson for the National Prosecution Authority said prosecutors, worked around the prescribed minimum sentences. Rajaa Azzakani, Parliament spokesperson, said the portfolio committee on justice and correctional services said legislation for child murders had not been discussed.    zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus