She accompanied City of Cape Town’s Water and Sanitation Department  officials  in Pinelands and Thornton as part of ongoing efforts to restrict households that, despite warnings and appeals to reduce water usage, are still using excessive amounts.  De Lille said that all Capetonians must reduce their water usage to below 87 litres per person per day.  “We thank the water-saving heroes for all their efforts to help us beat this drought, but not everyone is doing their part. Despite receiving warning letters, there are still households using excessive amounts of water.  "This kind of behaviour is pushing Cape Town closer to Day Zero,” said De Lille.   The City installed water management devices at three properties, two in Pinelands and another in Thornton.  “The water usage of these households over the past six months ranged between 19000 and 48000 litres per month. This means that, on average, the daily consumption of these households often exceeded 1000 litres per day,” said De Lille's spokesperson, Zara Nicholson.   “Many high users maintain a stubborn attitude in this time of water scarcity and have prevented City staff and contractors from accessing their properties to install these meters,” said Nicholson.  The City has taken action to install water management devices at 18597 high consumption households across the city so far where contraventions have occurred.  “Since July, the City sent warning letters to approximately 50000 households using excessive amounts of water. In August, the City started the roll-out of water management devices to restrict excessive users to 350 litres per day,” said Nicholson.  Properties where consumption above 350 litres per day is justified can, however, make representation to the City to request a quota extension.  In such cases where there are more than four people, the City will set the water management device to the appropriate level.  “We encourage residents to be proactive and write to the City beforehand so that the City can set the water management at the correct level,” said Nicholson.   Residents can request a quota increase by submitting an affidavit to water@capetown.gov.za or by visiting their nearest City walk-in centre.  The process and forms for requesting a quota extension can be found on the City’s website. Cape Argus