Cape Town - Lache Stols was surrounded by members of the community who didn't do enough to protect the murdered three-year-old, according to defence advocate Inge Levendall. Levendall was submitting her argument in the sentencing proceedings of convicted child murderer, Anthea Kleynhans, in the Western Cape High Court on Monday. Kleynhans, 39, beat Lache to death with a belt on January 23, 2012. She admitted that the beatings had occurred over a period of four months, when Lache was left in her care by her father Angelo Stols, the accused’s boyfriend at the time. Kleynhans is also facing a charge of child abuse. Levendall asked for the minimum prescribed murder sentence of 15 years as opposed to the State’s life imprisonment sentence. She made reference to the 16 Days of Activism Against Women and Children campaign. Lache’s father saw the abuse and didn’t do anything to stop the accused. Her biological mother also didn’t do enough, the court heard. She was called to come to Cape Town and although she approached the police, who turned her away, she did not do more. “Her paternal aunt took her to the doctor and was told not to return the child home to her father, but she returned the child to avoid trampling on anyone’s toes. Childline to date, we don’t know if any social worker was sent to the home or not. The grandmother had her suspicions but did nothing,” said Levendall. Levendall said there were “inkling” signs which were overlooked.  “Too many people were around Lache and noticed something was wrong, saw a mark, but did nothing,” she said. Meanwhile, prosecutor Nadia Ajam called for the abuse and murder sentences for Kleynhans to be separated. She asked the court to sentence her to ten years behind bars for abuse and life imprisonment for the child's murder. Ajam referenced an article published in 2009 about child murders. In that article it was stated that 1 018 child murders were committed. Of those, 39% of the children were younger than five, and half of that percentage were girls.  She said 44.5% died as a result of abuse, 76% of them girls. Ajam said this year 66 child murders were committed and 56 arrests were made. “Injuries, pain and suffering of Lache is unbearable to think of. What happened to Lache is no less than torture. Three doctors testified that it’s worst case of a child abuse that they have seen,” she said. Lache’s mother Lara Boer and her paternal grandmother, Katy Stols, were emotional on the stand. They said they placed their trust in the court. “Anthea is a mother just like me. She knew exactly what she was doing when she beat my child,” said Boer. Stols said: “I am hurt. I feel that the court should do what it must. I still want to know why she doesn’t want to answer how she killed Lache.”   zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus