Cape Town - The sentences handed down on sexual predator, Randy Tango, for the rape and murder of 11-year-old Stacha Arendse plus an additional ten years for the statutory rape of another victim, has been welcomed by Stacha's family and civil organisations. Western Cape High Court Judge Robert Henney handed Tango life imprisonment for each of the two rape charges and another life time for the conviction of murder against him. He got ten years for having sexual relations with a 14-year-old minor in 2008, with whom he has an eight-year-old daughter. Civil organisations who have been calling for life sentences to be handed down as minimum punishment for child murderers, as reported in the Cape Argus on Monday, welcomed the harsh sentence. Director of the Saartjie Baartman Centre Shaheema McLeod congratulated the police on a thorough investigation. “We are thrilled. It seems like we are moving towards passing harsher sentences. This Stacha case proved that if the police’s job is done 150% correct then prosecutors will have enough to argue for convictions and harsher sentences,” she said. Ilitha Labantu spokesperson Siyabulela Monakali said the sentence would send a strong message perpetrators. “We welcome harsher sentences for abuse of children. This sentence sends a strong message to perpetrators that they refrain from doing such heinous and violent crimes,” he said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. When handing down the sentence Henney said harsher sentences, within the court's power, needed to be imposed on sexual predators who preyed on defenseless children. He said rape was one of the most serious and violent crimes that can be committed. Henney said he had no doubt that Tango had observed and targeted Stacha before attacking her. “He was like a predator who must have called the deceased to sexually assault her. He knew he was alone and called her for no other purpose or reason but to sexually assault her. “He led Stacha into the lion’s den. She was no match for him. She was petite and fragile and he easily overpowered her,” said Henney. He described Tango’s conduct as cowardly. “Dumping her body like that was inhumane and showed his utter disregard,” said Henney. According to the Judge there are 56 cases of child murder before the National Director of Public Prosecutions. “There are daily occurrences of young children killed after being sexually violated. It has to stop sooner rather than later,” he said. The gallery erupted in cheers after the sentence was handed down. Stacha’s mother, Sandy Markgraaf, was in tears. She went over to the investigating officer, Detective Menolitho Heywood, who wiped the tears streaming down his face. Tango, shying away from the media, quickly put on his red cap before he was escorted back to the holding cells. Markgraaf sobbed as she thanked the public for their support. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “I still miss my baby especially at night when I remember how she liked dressing up and playing. She was my friend. “I am just glad he will never get to hurt another little girl,” she said. Markgraaf said she still struggled to face Tango. “It’s been really stressful. No matter what happens from here onwards, I am never going to get Stacha back,” she said. The DA in the Western Cape welcomed the sentence. Chairperson of the Standing Committee on Community Development, Lorraine Botha, said during the 2014/15 financial year, 200 children were murdered in the Western Cape. She said the year after that, 169 children were killed, while by the end of August this year, which was nine months into the financial year, 123 children were killed in the province. “These persistent attacks on women and children can never be justified, will never be acceptable and need to cease immediately.”  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus