Government’s failure to provide economic opportunities to our fishermen has been the catalyst for numerous ills which threaten to tear apart the social fabric of the Western Cape’s fishing communities. Exacerbating the problem is the National Ministry of Police, which has deployed no water or coastal policing units in the Western Cape - a crucial service in a province uniquely bordered by two oceans. In this environment abalone poaching thrives, ravaging our marine reserves and threatening to destroy the societies of our rural fishing communities. That being said, I must commend the SAPS in the Western Cape for a series of abalone syndicate busts this year in Panorama, Caledon, and De Grendel in Parow North, leading to numerous arrests and the recovery abalone with an estimated street value of R20 million. What worries me is what the National Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries does with the abalone it confiscates from these busts. The Department purports to sell it and feed back the revenue into conservation efforts. We know this is not the case as abalone poaching has worsened over the years, and water policing units remain under-resourced, if operational at all. In fact, the National Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (DAFF) admitted just last month that it does not have any money for staff. It seems there are only a shocking three officials to patrol a coastline spanning more than 4000km and including over 300 fishing communities. So where does the money from the sale of confiscated abalone go? Considering that the ANC at national government level has become synonymous with corruption, one can only assume the money mysteriously disappears within the department This revelation is particularly worrying. Should the sale of confiscated abalone be funding a select few DAFF officials, this presents a selfish incentive to allow abalone poaching to run rampant. If the SAPS and DAFF, through a series of abalone syndicate busts, are profiting from the sale of confiscated loot, there is evidently no reason for them to tackle poaching. In fact, there is more reason for these wings of national government to turn a blind eye to abalone poaching in the Western Cape, as it presents an easy and convenient means to syphon cash into their pockets. When will the Western Cape see to the investment of these funds back in the province to tackle coastal and environmental crime, and effectively allocate fishing quotas? Exacerbating this process is the fact that confiscated abalone is sold below market value, which devalues South African abalone on the international market and creates a disabling environment in which our fishermen can trade. This process does a serious disservice to our fishermen and women, and removes from our people economic opportunity and a chance at a prosperous life. It is this government-inflicted poverty which turns honest fishermen to poaching, and attracts gangsters into our fishing communities to engage in criminal poaching syndicates with foreign nationals in exchange for money and drugs. All of this information was compiled through comprehensive public hearings and scientific input, into the Abalone Report by the Standing Committee on Economic Opportunities, Tourism, and Agriculture in the Western Cape Provincial Legislature. As committee chairperson, I tabled this report at the National Assembly. The research offered numerous recommendations to national government to tackle abalone poaching in the Western Cape. Unsurprisingly, the report was shelved. The ANC at national government level has made it glaringly obvious that is does not wish to address abalone poaching in our province, and these revelations by DAFF seem to indicate that there is even reason for national government to sustain poaching to fuel corruption. This is of grave concern to the Western Cape and its people. Addressing abalone poaching in the Western Cape requires a comprehensive, and inter-ministerial approach to address job creation, crime, and environmental protection along with protection of the Western Cape’s coastlines. Based on what we have seen in our province, and the ways in which our calls for assistance have fallen on deaf ears among the ANC’s ministers in Pretoria, there is no real commitment to addressing this issue and ensuring the livelihoods and safety of our people. National government needs to realise that our marine resources are not limitless. The ANC needs to wake up to the reality that our oceans are being plundered at the expense of our people to satiate local and international greed. When abalone is poached to extinction, where will Western Cape fishermen and women turn for their livelihoods? * Beverley Schäfer, MPP, is chairperson of the Standing Committee on Economic Opportunities, Tourism, and Agriculture, Western Cape Provincial Legislature. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus