Johannesburg - Former treasurer-general of the African National Congress (ANC), Zweli Mkhize, tops the list of South Africa's ruling party's 80-member National Executive Committee (NEC) - the highest decision-making body. Mkhize, who shockingly withdrew from the party leadership race on Sunday for the sake of "unity", made a strong comeback. Announcing the results in the early hours of Thursday morning in Nasrec, Johannesburg, the Electoral Commission announced that Lindiwe Zulu got the second highest number of votes, followed by Regina Makgaule, David Masondo, Malusi Gigaba, Ronald Lamola, Violet Siwela, Zizi Kodwa, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma and Obed Bapela rounding off the top 10 on the list. Tito Mboweni, Lindiwe Sisulu, Bheki Cele, Fikile Mbalula, Thoko Didiza, Sdumo Dlamini, Bathabile Dlamini, Senzo Mchunu, Pravin Gordhan, and Naledi Pandor rounded off the top 20 positions. Dlamini-Zuma, the former African Union Commission Chairwoman, bounced back after losing out on the top party position to Cyril Ramaphosa on Monday. The former cabinet minister received 2 261 votes against Ramaphosa’s 2 440. Alvin Botes, Zingiswa Losi, Jackson Mthembu, Phumulo Masualle, Pule Mabe, Sfiso Buthelezi, Mduduzi Manana, Aaron Motsoaledi, Thandi Modise and Bongani Bongo were also elected to the party's NEC. Also elected were Enoch Godongwana, Nomvula Mokonyane, Baleka Mbete, Derek Hanekom, Mondli Gungubele, Jeff Radebe, Edna Molewa, Collen Maine, Nathi Mthethwa, and Tina Joemat-Pettersson. Nkenke Kekana, Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, Angie Motshekga, David Mahlobo, Ruth Bhengu, Mosebenzi Zwane, Pinky Kekana, Nocawe Mafu, Joe Maswanganyi, and Tony Yengeni rounded off the top 50. The more than 4 770 delegates also voted Joel Netshitenzhe, Dakota Lekgoete, Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula, Noxolo Kiviet, Ngoako Ramathlodi, Mathole Motshekga, Sbongile Bhesane, Dikeledi Magadzi, Thabang Makwetla, Siyabonga Cwele to the party's NEC. Barbara Creecy, Mildred Oliphant, Khensani Khubayi, Thandi Mahambehlala, Nokuzola Capa, Susan Shabangu, Pinky Moloi, Beauty Dluelane, Pamela Tshwete, Toko Xasa, Dipuo Letsatsi-Duba also made it. The list was rounded off by Nomaindia Mfeketho, Hlengiwe Mkhize, Pemmy Majodina, Faith Muthambi, Rejoice Mabudafhasi, Candith Mashego-Dlamini, Sindi Chikunga, Gwen Ramokgopa, Silvia Lucas. The announcement of the ANC NEC wrapped up the ruling party's national conference. African News Agency/ANA