The event will be hosted at Groote Schuur Hospital in Cape Town. The conference will be attended by more than 300 delegates from the World Heart Federation (WHF), major cardio-thoracic societies, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) as well as editors of medical journals and pharmaceutical companies. Surgical nurse Pollie Lambrechts remembers the day 50 years ago as  just another day at work when surgeon Christiaan Barnard, on December 3, 1967, performed the world's first human-to-human heart transplant at Groote Schuur Hospital on patient Louis Washkansky, 53.  Lambrechts was 25 years old at the time, the same age as donor Denise Darvall, who was killed after being hit by a car.  Lambrechts said they were on call that night and the operation began shortly after midnight, after Darvall’s father agreed to have her heart and kidneys donated.  “We didn't know we were making history at that stage, we were just on call and we knew there was going to be a transplant. To us it was just another day on the job and another operation.” Lambrechts said they only realised the following day that what they were a part of was big.  “When I left my car it was the last one in the parking lot and there was no press around. I went home and I slept and that afternoon I got a call to come back to the hospital.” She said that is when the press was present and the news went global.  “There was a lot of criticism from around the world because he (Barnard) did that and they felt that it was experimental and he just wanted to make history and it was really not that. It didn't change our lives as nurses, we just carried on with our work.” She said she enjoyed working with Barnard as he was “an excellent surgeon.” One of the most important outcomes of the conference will be the signing of the “Cape Town Declaration”. According to Professor Peter Zilla, head of the Christiaan Barnard Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery at Groote Schuur, it would be the first time that a declaration of this nature was endorsed. “I predict it will mark a turning point in the delivery of lifesaving medical procedures to millions of people in the developing world,” he said. “It will bind many of the world’s most respected leaders in cardiothoracic surgery, academics, cardiologists, policy makers and representatives of the (medical) device industry to work together, to bring the benefits of heart surgery to the estimated 33 million people worldwide who are affected by rheumatic heart disease. Many of these patients will die without surgery. “The declaration, once signed, would be a fitting honour to the legacy of Dr Christiaan Barnard, arising from the very hospital where he did the first heart transplant. “It also reaffirms UCT, Groote Schuur and this department’s position as a global player in this field,” said Zilla. The conference at which the declaration would be signed is to be held at the department this weekend. Zilla said the key to the conference was a day-long “South-North dialogue” that focuses on the plight of the millions of particularly young adult patients in low- to middle-income countries who suffer from rheumatic heart disease and who have no access to life-saving cardiac surgery. He said the conference would seek to focus on problems experienced in developing countries Despite being the pioneer of the heart transplant, the Organ Donor Foundation said South Africa was lagging in heart donors. The foundations said that far too few South Africans were willing to give consent to donate their own organs or those of a loved one. In surveys last year the foundation said it found that 70% of South Africans interviewed would accept an organ if they needed it. Alarmingly, 78% from the same group said they were not prepared to donate their organs.   yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus