Friends were intrigued recently to see two large lorries rumbling down their street carrying not one, but two full-sized fibreglass swimming pools. Who installs pools in the middle of the worst water shortage in history? Naturally they were curious and followed the cavalcade until it stopped at a neighbour’s house, where two big holes had been excavated. A pool was lowered into each hole and the lorries left. Apparently, the pools are to be completely submerged, with permanent covers, and the whole lot buried under some tasteful landscaping. The idea, of course, is to create a private “aquifer” in which to store a large amount of water without resorting to the municipal supply, which is soon to become very expensive. The initial water supply comes in a large tanker and thereafter the storage tanks will be topped up with rainwater collected from the roof. In effect, they are simply very, very big JoJo Tanks with the advantage of not spoiling the landscape. I assume they'll be fitted with pumps and filtration systems. The idea is not new. Many years ago my late father-in-law built a large house in the Eastern Cape town of Port Alfred and made a similar arrangement. Before building the two-car garage he excavated a large cellar, lined it with concrete and covered it with a concrete slab. It was filled with water from the roofs of the house and garage. Every morning the gardener’s first duty was to pump water from the underground supply into a tank in the house’s ceiling for the day’s use. At that time Port Alfred had a very tenuous water supply and my in-laws were among very few residents with an independent supply. I wonder whether our regulations could be modified to encourage builders to incorporate water storage systems in their plans. Perhaps we could introduce a subsidy for the installation of water storage systems. Two cheers! For those who read about my recent chair theft, the good news is that the chair has been recovered. Road workers found it hidden in the bushes across the street from my house and I thought it right to pay them a small reward for finding it. I suspect the thief wanted to come back for his loot later. I’ll never know, but I am glad the chair is back home, under lock and key. Last Laugh Farmer Jim had not been to the big city for many years and was horrified to see so much traffic. He was trying to get across the street, but every time he stepped off the pavement another vehicle came rushing past, almost knocking him down. As he stood there hesitating, a friendly traffic cop came along and said: “Sir, there’s a zebra crossing about 50m along from here.” “Well, I hope it’s having better luck than I am,” snorted Jim.  * Biggs is a daily columnist for the Cape Argus ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus