They used to ask us to write a composition on “My journey by train”. It was annoying and ridiculous because as Eastern Cape village children, what were the chances of us having seen a train, let alone being on board? With limited research sources from those who had been to big cities, we could conjure up some kind of a story of our supposed experience. I was reminded of these childhood musings on December 7 - yes that day when we had 42ºC in the city. On this day I had a planned meeting with a fellow who is also in my line of work. The meeting was scheduled for 2pm in Observatory. Struggling entrepreneurs (if you can call me that) have come to master the art of jealously guarding our time and cannot afford to be generous with our expenses. A balancing act many of us are aware of. So I lined up a few things to do in the CBD that day. I had planned to hammer away two hours of work at the City library, kill an hour oiling my networks in the city and then hop into a taxi to Obs for my 2pm meeting. All was planned. Luckily for me, I have a friend who is also an entrepreneur in the electronics-repair business who has in the past five years managed to sustain a family of three through this business. He doesn’t cease to amaze me, and is the source of inspiration for many youths in the NEETS bracket in our area, as he is also a young South African who was failed by our education system but has followed his passion for electronics. He was due to stock up on gadget parts in Obs, so we decided to use the train because it was cost-effective and the station is just a stone’s throw away from our houses. At 9.15am we were at the station waiting for the train. Forty-five minutes on with no train in sight, the station had collected a sizeable army of commuters. By 10.15am as many retail and domestic workers were starting to panic, I remembered vaguely a traffic report that morning about train delays, but it sort of slipped my mind because train delays have become part of a daily traffic report. An hour had passed with no train and any sane person would think that the hard-working folks at Prasa would have the decency of communicating with the commuters, and at least tell them what was going on. Well, none was forthcoming and in fact throughout this ensuing ordeal, I don’t remember hearing any official communication from Prasa. We kept our eyes on the sometimes faulty traffic lights and others fixed theirs on the direction of the oncoming train with the hope of a train coming. Around 11am, someone said a friend of some variety had WhatsApped him that the train had just passed Stock Road station on its way to us. Faces brightened when the train eventually appeared, and conversations turned to more pleasant things. We got on board and we rode until Nolungile station and six of our men in blue came on board with guns and all. They proceeded to other coaches and that was the only security personnel I saw throughout the journey, other than that  bored army of guards milling around on the platforms with no particular duties. The train arrived at Mandalay station, and little did we know that we would be there for 45 minutes. After several minutes in Mandalay, people started to leave the train to look for water and shade - after all, it was a scorcher outside. After more than 30 minutes, a guy brave enough headed off to the driver to ask how long we were going to be there. The driver’s answer was 45 minutes, and he stated he had to be in Cape Town by 3pm. After a while, the doors of the train suddenly moved to close and the train jerked, causing a commotion and scramble from those outside trying to get in - many of them were as young as 11 years old. This happened with no whistle blown to indicate an intention to move after close to an hour’s stop. This reckless conduct could have killed people. Somewhere between Stock Road and Nyanga, there was another stop, and we curiously looked outside to find out what might have caused this stoppage. As the people were looking, there was another commotion and there was another passing train in the opposite direction. People started ducking away, screaming that someone was about to be hit by the train and this sent the whole coach into a chaos. A lady next to me, who appeared to be in her mid-twenties, started crying hysterically at the news that someone had been hit by the train, and I had an obligatory duty to console her. My immediate thought was that we were in for more hours’ delays and I might as well forget about my 2pm meeting. But the train moved on within minutes, and we resumed our journey. To confirm this accident, I had to call on warriors at Public Transport Voice, who had been advocating for quality public transport. They confirmed to me that Prasa did indeed send 
them an SMS about a “passenger incident near Stock Road and they must expect delay”. I finally made it to my last station a few minutes before 2pm, and needless to say, I was late for the meeting. These are the daily experiences of many who rely on Prasa services in the city, especially in the central line where the bulk of poor commuters hail from. In English there is a phrase that says: “The fish rots from the head”, and this seems to be a case here. The Prasa board, like its SOE brethren, had been in complete paralysis until the recent appointment of an interim one recently by Minister of Transport Mmamoloko Kubayi. This had obviously spread over to operations, as you can see from the above story. Richard Walker and the gang in Adderley Street threw their hands in the air on Monday, suspending services on the central line and blaming everything on cable thieves while saying nothing about what would happen to those who use the train to get to work. This is the kind of treatment that those who are at the bottom of the economic pyramid have been accustomed to. I have seen politicians treat them like that; businesses have found that they are not worthy of decent salaries to take care of their children, and we have seen government colluding with business in playing with their grants, so why are we surprised when Prasa tries to do the same? *  Lukhanyo Mangona is the founder of Masifundisane Tutoring Services, which specialises in tutoring maths and science. He can be contacted on 062 371 8129. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. CAPE ARGUS