Mayoral committee member for safety and security, and social services, JP Smith, said tthe initiative forms part of the City’s Expanded Public Works Programme (EPWP). “The initiative was launched in November for 80 street people living in shelters. They are working as assistants at their shelters doing cooking, cleaning and general maintenance as part of the EPWP opportunity that will continue until the end of June,” he said. “The City has created more than 100000 work opportunities through the EPWP since 2011 and has set a target of 45000 work opportunities for the current financial year.” On  the streets of Cape Town, the  homeless were asked what their one wish for Christmas was. Zamuxolo Masabalala, 45, said all he wished for this Christmas was to live in a house. “I wish all my fellow homeless friends all of the best for this Christmas. Most other people are joyful during this period but for us it is the worst because we have nobody.” Justin Diedericks, 22 has been living on the streets since he was 16. “If I could make one wish for this Christmas it would be to reconcile with my family. It was my birthday on  December 16 and I could not celebrate it with anybody. Christmas is a time of reconciliation and family and that is all that I want.” Martin Lilae, 50, who said he has been living on the streets for most of his life, said all he wanted was shelter. “I have a found a job but all I need now is a house - even if it is a Wendy house.” Chadwin Crotz, 29, said that his wish would be to have a holiday, a much-needed break from the streets. Ricardo Lott, 35, said that his wish was to see his first born for the first time. “The reason the mother of my child does not want me to meet my child is because I was arrested around the time he was born.” Magadien Wentzel, 54, said he wished to see more homeless people get jobs. “If we are employed, we will be able to get off the streets,” he said. Amelia Sampson, 32, said all she wanted was to become a better mother to her two children. “My youngest is six months and I want to be a better person for the two of them.” Cape Argus columnist  and Dignity Project ambassador Danny Oosthuizen, who has been living on the streets for three years, said: “One wish would be that we are more mindful of each other, that we would practise more tolerance. That we try to heal the wounds of the past by just being human towards each other.” Cape Argus