MEC for Community Safety Dan Plato said the plans will be introduced early next year once the red zones and other details have been finalised. Neighbourhood watch members will also be used to safeguard schools in crime-ridden areas. “We already have the have the provincial Health and Education departments on board to assist us in the plan. The members will be assisting police who we all know are very thin in terms of human resources. The members will be trained and resourced to do their job,” he said. In her budget speech at the Provincial Legislature in March, Health MEC Nomafrench Mbombo said 95 Emergency Medical Staff  (EMS) members were attacked while on duty during the previous financial year. The EMS has been in extensive talks with senior government officials over the safety of its paramedics. “We know that there is a great need to protect our paramedics and we need to make plans to stop this. Our neighbourhood watch members will give support where they can and I am confident that the criminals are not easily going to mess with neighbourhood watch members. While paramedics attend to those injured, the members will safeguard the ambulances,” Plato said. Plato said 28 watches will receive accreditation from government. “The neighbourhood watch members have always felt like they are not recognised. They will now have full accreditation and authority from government and can act according to a mandate. We have equipped them with the necessary training and equipment to perform their duties. They will also receive a stipend,” he said.  The 28 newly accredited structures bring the  number of neighbourhood watches accredited in 2017/18 thus far to 129. Overall, the department has already accredited 166 neighbourhood watch structures since accreditation processes started in October last year. The new  structures receiving accreditation include areas predominantly from the greater Cape Town area, such as Milnerton, Stellenbosch, Diep River, Gugulethu, Franschhoek, Woodstock, Lansdowne, Bellville, Bellville South, Grabouw, Atlantis, Grassy Park, Kraaifontein, Steenberg, Delft, Kuils River, Macassar and Kirstenhof. “Further accreditation ceremonies are being scheduled for early 2018 for those neighbourhood watch structures from outside the Cape Town area, Southern Cape and Garden Route for instance, who are still awaiting accreditation,” Plato said.   jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus