And music. We all managed to play simple tunes on various instruments and made a merry noise together. Luckily the farmhouse was large and there were always rooms for everyone. It was the highlight of my late mother’s year and she would start planning details from about August, allocating rooms and making lists of all that had to be bought, prepared and ordered. I heard a delightful story about an English family Christmas card that has travelled more than 1 120 000km over the years. It all began in 1949 when Phyllis Cashin sent a card to her brother-in-law, Bob, with a note to say he could send it back the following year. The family later split when members emigrated to Australia, but they kept sending that old Christmas card back and forth each Christmas. After 68 years of back and forth travel and even though some family members have passed away, they reckon the card has covered at least 1 120 000km. I find that a delightful Christmas story. I like to think the tradition will be carried on for many years, each generation handing over the responsibility to the next one. I wonder how many people even bother to post real Christmas cards now. It’s so much easier just to tap out an “e-card” and press the “send” key. On the farm our Christmas cards formed a delightful part of the Christmas decorations. They were displayed on a long string, stretched across the lounge like a washing line, and every time we looked up, there was a card from Aunty May and one from Cousin June and one from Aunt Una, all strung together rather symbolically, as though that stretch of string was holding the widespread family together. You can’t do that with e-cards. Another tradition several of my friends carry on is collecting tree decorations from their friends and family members. They enjoy their Christmas trees so much more when each of the glittering baubles represents a cousin or brother who is far away. I suppose, however, that we have to move with the times and be grateful that it’s so easy to tap out messages or chat on Skype or WhatsApp, no matter where we are in the world. I hope we all do. Christmas is the ideal time for relatives to re-connect. I wish all the Tavern readers a very happy and safe Christmas. Preferably connected. Last Laugh A wealthy businessman was irritated when a beggar approached him and whined: “Excuse me sir, but could you spare R30 for a cup of coffee? The businessman snapped at him: “That’s ridiculous! You can buy a cup of coffee for R15 at the corner cafe. “Yes, I know, sir,” said the beggar, “but I like to leave a generous tip.”  * Biggs is a daily columnist for the Cape Argus ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus