In September, a four-month-old baby was killed after being attacked by a pitbull terrier in Ravensmead. The dog had to be put down by the SPCA after being beaten by members of the community following the attack. Chairperson of the Animal Behaviour Consultants of SA Shannon McKay said two reasons could be behind the attacks on small children. “This is probably due to size and knowledge. A child’s smaller size and their more active body movements could simultaneously cause a dog to feel less concern for potential retaliation and their prey drive toward smaller animals could be triggered by a child’s erratic movements. Most children are also less skilled at interpreting canine body language and are thus less likely to defuse or avoid an aggressive encounter. For these reasons, parents should not allow unsupervised interaction between dogs and children.” McKay added that is was not always possible to say why dogs attack people. “It would be like trying to answer why people attack other people. There are a multitude of possible reasons - poor genetics, inappropriate environment, incorrect raising, inadvertent training, poor health, past experiences, etc. If all dogs were to be ethically bred, appropriately socialised and managed according to their individual nature the instances of maulings would decrease substantially.” Earlier this year law firm DSC Attorneys said South Africa had the highest incidence of dog attacks on humans in the world. They said that in South Africa dogs account for 76% to 94% of animal bite injuries, and dog bite fatalities are higher because of lack of post-exposure treatment and appropriate access to health care. Last year nine people died as a result of dog attacks. SPCA spokesperson Belinda Abraham said they admitted over 167 dogs and of those at least 50 were impounded after either attacking other people or dogs. ER24 chief medical officer Dr Robyn Holgate said it  was best to see a medical professional after being attacked. “Clinically, we would triage the severity of the injury. Patients who have sustained severe injuries should be resuscitated first. “Treatment may involve direct pressure to stop the bleeding and attention to the airway and breathing. The decision on whether to suture a wound or not is best left to your doctor.”  yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus