Entirely deplorable, these statistics serve as a blunt reminder to the scholarly community, in particular, to stay true to its national responsibilities: to remain vigilant, raise questions and point out perils others may find inopportune or uncomfortable even to contemplate. The absolute strength of rational insight cannot be emphasised enough, precisely when conventional wisdom seemingly fails to “connect the dots”. The “problem” does not only reside in the world of 4th graders, 80% of whom, as indicated by Pirls, don’t know what they’re reading about. Can we blame these children for not really showing a demonstrable interest in reading in the first place? But how did they manage to make it through to Grade 4? What were their conceptual abilities like in earlier grades? If “reading” among primary school pupils is cause for ever more serious concern, then what can be said of their writing abilities and skills? The 4th grader who does not know the meaning of words applicable to his age and/or level of schooling, or cannot locate or extract basic answers from simple given texts - pitched at his required level, no less - will assuredly experience difficulty constructing sentences that transcend very elementary, one-dimensional thinking. The same presumption could apply to his ability (or inability, more likely) to speak clearly, appropriately, meaningfully and convincingly, in the context of his current age and/or grade. The recent results cannot be taken lightly, for the argument could reasonably be made that the overwhelming majority of 4th graders may be displaying signs of intellectual-ineptness - a lack in proficiency to think and reason clearly, rationally, logically, creatively, interpretatively, predictively, and correctly and precisely - as generally expected within predetermined boundaries. If associated, and fundamentally-important didactic concepts like “thinking” and “reasoning” are in question here, then 80% of South Africa’s 4th graders may be dreadfully under-performing in areas such as maths and science as well? How would or does the functionally illiterate 4th grader typically perform in basic sums and calculations? Insofar as many of them would nonetheless make it through to Grade 5, no doubt, what then lies ahead? Is it at this point that the district official makes an appearance, insisting on the raising of marks so as to meet certain targets, moreover set by a compliant bureaucracy? What is the rationale for the upward adjustment of marks of schoolchildren struggling precisely in core learning areas? Could this explain why so many entry-level university students continue to fall by the wayside? And could the many complaints of lack of 
acuity from employers have any link with the 
fact that far too many of our primary school children do not only lack basic reading skills, including the capacity to grasp and understand the meaning of the words they read, but that they may be or have become incapacitated in their general thinking faculties? Is this not the horror already etched on the wall? Namely, that our kids are underperforming simply because they have been denied the capacity to learn? What is fairly certain is that the functionally illiterate 4th grader would commonly lack the vocabulary, broadly required to: offer productive responses and pose probing questions in class, complete simple writing projects, deliver interesting oral presentations, and engage in healthy classroom discussion. What are the chances of this very same pupil  magically engaging good communicative tools in a maths or science class? It is, therefore, and by far, not just a question of hundreds of thousands of 4th graders struggling to make sense of what they are reading. These pupils may not possess the necessary skills, abilities and capacities, to engage meaningfully on different levels, as well as in various forms, of communication. He may choose to express his thoughts and emotions, rather, in abusive, physical terms, than in constructive and interactive ways. The argument often is made that children should read because “readin’ can make y’all 
damn cleva”. For sure, it can, but here’s another, oft-neglected perspective: reading has the capacity to stimulate brain functioning, an absolute requisite for healthy brain development and growth. If the child’s mind remains underdeveloped then there is, quite literally, very little room for the retention of data, facts, skills, knowledge, and so forth. This child in all probability has difficulty committing to memory as well as recalling the rudiments of some seven different and distinct areas of learning. The point being: it is not purely the child who does not or cannot read, per se, as much as it 
is the child whose mind is and remains unstimulated and forever dulled, inhibited and suppressed, that should take national centre stage without delay. Rather than just shouting read! read! read! read! from our rooftops - as we all should be doing anyway - we simultaneously need to look at supplementary ways that can enhance and raise the child’s intellectual stimulus, from as early an age as possible. Insofar as reading is and remains a fundamental tool to stimulate brain functioning and, in doing so, augment the transfer, retention, recall and application of various knowledge, data and skills sets, it is by far not the only one (instrument) to perform this important task. It is precisely here where well-crafted, yet often quite simple creative, explorative, as well as physical activity can play a critically supportive role. Let’s encourage and promote reading by any and all means for sure, for it can bring so much joy and open countless doors and pathways to both the reader and listener. But let’s not forget its true, primary power - namely, its innate propensity to stimulate the mind. It is arguably the wholesome neglect of this factor, more than any other, that forms the underlying basis of the appalling Pirls results. * Clive Kronenberg is a National Research Foundation-accredited and funded transdisciplinary research scholar. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. CAPE ARGUS