Cape Town - One of Manenberg's young bright stars is ready to conquer the world, and in six months time he will be jetting off to Norway to further his studies. Cohen Charles, 22, is due to graduate next month with a BA degree in Linguistics at the University of the Western Cape and is set to attend the University of Oslo next year. Not only is Cohen, and his twin brother Cameron, the first in their family to matriculate, but Cohen is also the first person in his neighbourhood to attend university. His outstanding academic record has won him several accolades, including membership in the Golden Key Society and Deans Commendations. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Cohen says the highlight of his academic journey thus far is his selection to study in Norway as a bilateral exchange student. The twins were raised by their single mom Elaine, and thanks to this strong woman, the boys were saved from ending up as crime statistics. “My mother kept my brother and I in the house until we were 15 years old,” explains Cohen. “She said she knew the streets would eat us up and she kept us in until we could think for ourselves. She always told us: ‘Don’t be a follower, be a leader’. “She said the choices we make have consequences, good or bad, and I still live by that now.” Cohen says listening to gun shots going off outside his house gave him many sleepless nights but it inspired him to study even harder. “I made contact with an old lecturer of mine and he told me to get straight As and then apply to study abroad. A year later, after working extremely hard and many nights lying to my mother that I was sleeping instead of studying was all worth it,” says the shy young man. Elaine made an effort to mentor her kids, and she would make charts of their math sums and put them on the wall so they could practice. She would also make vocabulary flashcards and test them everyday after she got home from her job at Mowbray Golf Club. The boys were looked after by their late grandmother during the day. The young man says although he will miss his graduation: “I’ll take a trip to Norway any day over five minutes on a stage”. He adds: “I have never flown before or even left Cape Town, now I will be studying at one of the best universities in Europe.”  robin.francke@inl.co.za  Daily Voice