Cape Town - Three people, including a 10-year-old boy, were killed, and nine others injured when four vehicles collided on the N1 highway between Worcester and Rawsonville in the Western Cape, emergency services provider ER24 reported on Tuesday. ER24 spokesperson Russel Meiring said paramedics, along with Life Healthcare and other emergency services, arrived on the scene on Tuesday morning to find four wrecked vehicles in the middle of the highway. All four vehicles had sustained a significant amount of damage in the collision. According to Meiring, local authorities began to close off the highway and divert traffic in an operation lasting two hours. "Upon closer inspection, paramedics found a woman lying trapped inside a light motor vehicle while a man, as well as a boy and girl, both believed to be 10 years old, were found lying outside the same vehicle.  "In a second vehicle, a man was found lying motionless and trapped, while another man was found lying outside the vehicle. Six other patients were found walking around on the scene." Meiring said: "Paramedics assessed the patients and found that the woman and boy had sustained fatal injuries while the man and girl were found to be in a critical condition. "Paramedics immediately began their treatment of the patients and initiated CPR and advanced life support interventions on the lifeless woman. Unfortunately, after some time, no vital signs returned and both the woman and boy were declared dead. "The man lying trapped inside the second vehicle was assessed and found to have sustained numerous injuries and showed no signs of life, while the man lying outside of the vehicle was found to be in a critical condition. Unfortunately, nothing found be done for the trapped man and he was declared dead. The second man was treated for his injuries and was provided with advanced life support interventions." Meiring said the six other patients on the scene were assessed and found to have sustained minor to moderate injuries. "Paramedics treated the patients and provided some with pain-relief medication. "Once all the patients had been treated, they were transported to Mediclinic Worcester and Worcester Provincial Hospital for urgent care." Meiring said local authorities were on the scene for further investigations. African News Agency/ANA