Despite her colourful and somewhat offensive tweets, Zille’s department did fairly well in handling her personal and party matters. Challenges stemming from the water crisis will plague her department in the last year of her term before she steps down in 2019. She still has challenges with demographics in her office, but the department has constantly performed and achieved clean audits. Its R1 billion broadband rollout has also given thousands access to the internet. She gets 6/10.  Agriculture, Economic Development and Tourism Alan Winde is one of the most tech-savvy members of the provincial cabinet. Winde, who manages both these departments, always encourages new apps and is constantly seeking ways to be innovative. The current drought and the recent avian flu outbreak placed his department under pressure. The agriculture sector also faces estimated job losses of around 50 000. Winde department’s has, however, continued to invest more money in drought relief that provides some assistance to the agriculture sector. He gets 8/10.  Community Safety Dan Plato has become somewhat unfavoured in some police circles mainly for his outspokenness and open book policy with journalists. Although he has very little control over the police in the province, he continually places pressure on them. When it comes to community policing forums, Plato remains very active by visiting gang-ravaged areas. He gets 7/10.  Cultural Affairs and Sport Anroux Marais’ department is relatively under the radar with the smallest budget. Apart from signing cheques, donating money and opening libraries, Marais keeps her department’s finances and affairs above board. Marais gets 6/10.  Local Government, Environmental Affairs & Development Planning The Kannaland and Beaufort West municipalities was arguably Anton Bredell’s biggest headaches. Despite the fights and at times political volatilities, the two municipalities are at risk of running out of water. Its income base is also very low. The Oudtshoorn municipality which was in a dire state a few years back, was miraculously turned around by Bredell and the national government’s intervention. He regularly goes to municipalities and ensures that there is enough capacity to fight fires and to manage disasters. Bredell, who oversees these two departments, is also one of the few MECs who speaks Afrikaans in the provincial legislature. Bredell scored 7/10.  Health The Western Cape Department of Health operates under dangerous conditions and the demand for quality health care in a weak economy is mounting. Health MEC Nomafrench Mbombo and head of department Dr Beth Engelbrecht have had to deal with attacks on paramedics working in townships and bodies piling up in morgues. Despite challenges, Mbombo opened several new clinics in rural towns and has continued to invest in health care with a budget of just more than R20 billion. She gets an 8/10.  Human Settlements Bonginkosi Madikizela’s department suffered a blow to its financial reputation when the auditor- general raised several red flags. Work done by subcontractors at government housing sites was blamed when the department did not receive a clean audit. The AG raised red flags about targets not being supported by valid records and documents. Madikizela is also under a cloud after the Western Cape Provincial Legislature’s conduct committee instituted a probe on his birthday party held at the upmarket One&Only earlier this year. The conduct committee is also investigating allegations that he failed to declare a R3 000 cake which was a gift from a contractor doing business with his department. He gets 5/10.  Social Development Albert Fritz was the only MEC to be kicked out of a sitting of the Western Cape Legislature earlier this year for unparliamentary remarks. He has however opened new youth centres and ensured that his department’s finances were solid. The challenges with the payout of grants caused some stir but being elected as the deputy leader of the DA, he gained stature in his party. He gets 6/10.  Transport and Public Works Donald Grant’s biggest project was the upgrades to the N1 and N2 which are near completion. Some of his department’s challenges included taxi strikes in Cape Town. Go George buses in Knysna were also damaged during a service delivery protest. Grant also received stiff opposition from taxi associations to the increase in vehicle licence tariffs. Grant gets 6/10.  Provincial Treasury Dr Ivan Meyer has had to juggle the needs of society and cutbacks on departmental budgets. With slow economic growth and political instability in the country, Meyer had to make tough decisions. Despite the challenges, the provincial treasury has collected maximum revenue from gambling and betting. He gets 6/10.  Education Debbie Schäfer’s department has had a few challenges with her proposal to amend the provincial school bill to allow public schools to sell alcohol on school premises or at school activities, subject to approval by the provincial head of the Education Department. Her proposal was met with stiff opposition and the national government also got involved trying to convince Schäfer not to go ahead with the bill. She gets 6/10. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus