PayPal research revealed that over the years more people are opting for online shopping although it proved to be less safe than shopping in stores.  Matt Cox, head of fraud for Europe, the Middle East and Africa at the Fair Isaac Corporation, a London-based analytics company, said research commissioned by PayPal and conducted by Ipsos earlier this year revealed that online spending in South Africa is expected to reach R53 billion next year, up from R37bn last year.  “The increase in online spending is also forecast to continue, with over half of online adults interviewed (53%) saying they will increase their online spending in the next 12 months. The reason shopping was safer in stores is that there are more safety checks when using a card than using it online. The number one type of card fraud in most countries is card-not-present (CNP) fraud, it accounts for some 70% of card fraud in the UK,” Cox said. According to the SA Banking Risk Information Centre (Sabric), South Africa lost over R1bn each year to cybercrime. Cox encouraged online shoppers to be cautious as criminals are constantly developing new and more sophisticated ways to steal money online. “Criminals go where the money is, and where the defences are weaker. As online shopping grows, they are targeting online transactions to a greater extent than ever before. Banks are turning to tools such as FICO Customer Communication Services to contact customers automatically if a transaction looks risky, via SMS,” he said. He added that consumers were so hungry for bargains that they would make purchases that might seem risky just to get the discount. Tricks that criminals will use include fake coupons that appear online or in emails, fake websites and emails that appear to be from retailers but are actually phishing scams. Associate director at specialist global risk consultancy Control Risks, Nicolas Reys, said: “Criminals are likely to take advantage of the Christmas period to steal credentials and personal identifiable information. They may use sophisticated spear phishing techniques exploiting the festive period to encourage shoppers to download malicious attachments or to visit malicious websites.” Reys advised companies to inform customers of potential threats associated with the holiday period. On Monday, Sabric and CSIR brought together a group of students from different universities across the country as the annual Centre for High Performance Computing conference to come up with innovative ideas to combat cybercrime.   okuhle.hlati@inl.co.za  Cape Argus