Chief executive of the Independent Examinations Board Anne Oberholzer said the National Senior Certificate pass rate and the performance of matriculants should not be a competition between provinces and accredited assessment bodies. “South Africa has a pre-occupation with university study that is creating a distorted view of what education is about. It’s a key reason for the undue pressure we experience when it comes to university entry and the funding of that system.” She said writing the final exams should be the point where pupils accept the challenge of a school leaving and university entrance exam.  “If all provinces scored a pass rate of 98% or 99% in the NSC, would we be this obsessed with the fact that the pass rate of one was 98.5% and another 98.6%? I would think not. It would indicate a system that is optimally functional.” Oberholzer said there would always be pupils that had a poor exam session due to being ill or experiencing a tragedy. University of Pretoria education expert Professor Kobus Maree echoed Oberholzer’s sentiments and said it was time to stop paying lip service to what didn’t really impact a pupil’s life. Maree said the craze around the matric pass rate was something that has developed over time and is spurred on by the human nature of always wanting to compete. “We as educated people should know better than to focus on what is not in the interest of our pupils and take the best interest of the child into account. What is important is how the pupil did and will their marks allow them to enter into sought after fields of study at university of TVET colleges?” The SA Depression and Anxiety Group (Sadag) said they offered pupils and parents the help of trained counsellors seven days a week.  Operations director Cassey Chambers said many pupils thought they would be judged solely on their academic achievements rather than as individuals.  “We are here to help pupils and their parents with the stress. I’ve always believed that failure need not be the end of the world. It can be an incredible opportunity for learning and growth.” Sadag can be reached on their website; www.sadag.org or they can be called on 0800 12 13 14.   yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus