“Paradise? Ho hum yes, 
we do live in paradise. I’ve no idea why anybody would live anywhere 
else.” One of the good things about having visitors from far away is that we usually take them on tours of our wonderful city, and end up 
getting to experience more of it for ourselves, too. I wonder how many of our readers have attended performances of the Zip Zap Circus, which really is one of Cape Town’s treasures. Zip Zap describes itself as “a school of circus arts for social change”, and many of the youngsters come from the poorest backgrounds and receive training in skills like juggling, trapeze work, tumbling and trick cycling. The kids, aged from 7 to 12, come from all walks of life, some pay for their training and some, who cannot afford to pay, are trained free. Most circus skills demand complete trust in one’s fellow performers. If you’re flying through the air from a trapeze you have to be darn sure you will be caught by a secure and trusted pair of hands before you hit the floor. What a wonderful way this is to teach South African youngsters from all the various population groups that we need each other. I sat entirely entranced by the many acts, laughing at clowns doing fast, precision tumbling and 
gasping at aerialists suspended high above us from a ribbon, or a sash - or, in one case, a chain (which looked very eina!). I went to the performance mostly out of duty because the young granddaughter of a friend was in a triple trapeze act and I felt I should see her perform. I am so glad I did. It was a stunning show and I will be back often in the future to watch this amazing group in action. Zip Zap is a non-profit and public benefit organisation, and you can learn more about them by visiting their website. Tap in www.zipzap.co.za You may also like to know that donations to the circus are tax deductible. Whatever you do in the new year, make sure your plans include at least one Zip Zap show. I promise you won’t regret it. As I said at the beginning, this is one of Cape Town’s treasures. Show it to your visitors if you have a chance. Last Laugh After many sessions on the psychiatrist’s couch, Ronnie was finally cured of his kleptomania. “I believe you will be able to walk through any shopping mall and no longer feel the compulsion to steal anything,” said the psychiatrist. “Gee thanks, doc,” said Ronnie, “that’s truly amazing.” Then the doctor added: “If you do walk through the mall and happen to have a relapse, I could do with a new microwave.”  * Biggs is a daily columnist for the Cape Argus ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus