Firstly, there seems to be a lack of generational mix in our nominations. The majority of the nominations are dominated by the 1976 SA Student Organisation (Saso) generation, who are now in their 60s. There are insufficient nominations of the Congress of SA Students (Cosas) and ANC Youth Leage (ANCYL) generation of the 1980s and 1990s, ie our generation. We can be regarded as the last generation who received their political education and training in the streets fighting apartheid. Since 1994 most of us have acquired extensive qualifications, skills and work experience in the state, private sector and civil society, rather than having gone into full-time active politics in the ANC. Should we patiently wait for the veterans to retire or should we claim our space? Historically, the ANC has always ensured that its national executive committee (NEC) leadership included a fair spread of the different generations of ANC activists. At certain points in history the leadership was dominated by those just graduating from their youth. Former president Nelson Mandela became deputy president (DP) of the ANC at 34 and OR Tambo at 41. Former president Mbeki was elected onto the NEC in his 30s. The late comrade Walter Sisulu was elected secretary-general (SG) at 37, Deputy President (DP) Cyril Ramaphosa was elected SG at the age of 42 and former DP Kgalema Motlanthe was elected SG at 48. Since its establishment in 1912 it was this practice of inter-generational change which secured the ANC's survival, growth and hegemony under the most challenging circumstances. History also indicates that when the ANC deviated from this practice - as in the 1930s - it was in danger of becoming a moribund organisation. Furthermore, this phenomenon of resisting handing over power to younger generations - also known as "leadership disease" - is what has killed many of our former liberation movements. These leaders slowly lost touch with the youths' mindset and changing socio-political, economic and technological shifts taking place in a rapidly changing and complex world. With the Fourth Industrial Revolution upon us, the only way the ANC will be able to retain its revolutionary character and evade straying too far from its "radical" roots will be to elect more of the Cosas/ANCYL generation. This generation brings together a mixture of revolutionary morality, political maturity and the energy and technical skills required in this modern era. It also creates an environment of future predictability and stability for the ANC. lt is also important that we are cognisant that the majority of our base voters are the youth, and African youth in particular. If we want to attract their vote we need to reflect a leadership they can identify with. The alternative is that we risk losing their vote to a more youthful opposition. Secondly, there is the issue of the national question and our ANC vision of building a non-racial and non-sexist national democratic society. The nominations indicate insufficient representation of coloureds, Indians and whites, (the so-called minorities) on the NEC. If this trend continues we may be in danger of losing our non-racial character, which was developed through decades of anti-colonial and anti-apartheid struggle co-operation and joint programmes of action beginning in the 1930s right up until 1994. Historically, the ANC NEC (since 1985 and the Mass Democratic Movement (MDM) structures such as the United Democratic Front (UDF) and its affiliates), consciously reflected this non-racial character in its leadership at all levels. Yet, as a result of state politics over the past decade there is a perception that the demographic representation of so-called minorities on the NEC is no longer as important a consideration as it once was. Mandela in the run-up to our 1991 national elective conference warned us then that at some point the ANC may lose its non-racial character, as is reflected in its leadership structures. In order to prevent this, he argued at the time (albeit unsuccessfully) for constitutionalising a minimum threshold for the so-called minorities in the same manner that we would in later years (2007) do for the election of women into leadership. Perhaps it is time we reopen this debate. In addition to this principle of defending our non-racial character there is also a rational and politically pragmatic reason for doing so at this juncture. Since 2009 the ANC has been on a downwards electoral spiral, and therefore, the so-called minority vote becomes far more important as a kingmaker. The electoral trends indicate that the majority of coloureds and Indians have, since 1994 and more acutely since 2009, moved away incrementally from the ANC towards the DA. Some of the reasons provided for the changes in their voting preferences is the perception that the ANC no longer represents their interests and that it is losing its non-racial character, both in terms of its leadership, and its government policies and programmes. Given our current electoral support it is necessary that we once again become more sensitive to the fears, insecurities and aspirations of the (African) youth and so-called minority sectors. We must elect a leadership that is more reflective of them if we want to win back their votes and decimate the opposition. The first step is to ensure that our leadership quota of these sectors is based on the demographics of the country and not necessarily their current voting support for the ANC. In other words, our NEC should consist of at least 50% of activists who come from the Cosas/ANCYL 1980s and 1990s generation and at least 20% of the NEC should come from the so-called minorities. * Faiez Jacobs is the ANC's Western Cape provincial secretary. He was a former SACP, Cosas/Wecsco and ANCYL provincial leader and MK combatant in the 1980s and 1990s. He writes in his personal capacity. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus