Office parties are deemed to be part of your work time and even if it is held outside the work place the employee and the employer is bound by the same terms and conditions as outlined in the various Disciplinary Codes and Codes of Good Practice. Obviously, the issue of alcohol consumption would be specifically waived under certain terms and
conditions. It is my recommendation that alcohol be denied at office parties as often this leads to various problems. On many occasions staff and management tend to believe that because it is an office party they can behave in a vastly different way in which they are expected to do at work. It is not acceptable to try and settle old scores or to kindle a love affair. Allegations of assault, sexual harassment, abusive behaviour and discrimination often arise leading to disciplinary enquiries and even dismissal after the complaint is lodged with the management the next day or even the next year. I have been involved, over the years, in many disciplinary enquiries and even criminal complaints 
which have arisen due to untoward behaviour at 
office parties. Already this year I have received numerous complaints about sexual harassment often fuelled by the consumption of alcohol. Unfortunately, many individuals seem to think they are a lot more desirable after they have consumed too much alcohol. I have also been involved where injuries that have occurred at Christmas parties have sometimes been of a permanent and debilitating nature. Staff feel it necessary sometimes to show off and to partake in adventurous activities invariably leading to some sort of injury to that person or someone else. These claims need to be lodged with the Department of Labour and Workmen’s Compensation like any other normal injury on duty. It must be known to management that if they are going to hold a celebration organised by the employer, management has to be in control and have to oversee the staff behaviour. It doesn’t help an employer to claim they were not present when the untoward behaviour took place. The employer is still responsible. All employers owe a duty of care to all their staff especially when the activity has been organised by the employer. On one occasion two young men decided to settle old scores and moved to the backyard of the restaurant where they were celebrating so that they could have a punch up. Many of the staff were invited to watch. Much merriment and excitement coupled by encouragement frommanagement and staff transpired. This fight led to a serious injury and criminal and civil complaints being laid. The company which hosted the event became liable for the damages that ensued and in turn both individuals were dismissed after disciplinary enquiries. This is a plea to employers to ensure that all end-of-year celebrations are kept civil and that behaviour is regularly checked so as to ensure there is no liability in the future. Furthermore, staff are warned that their behaviour is being carefully monitored and will lead to some sort of action if there is a negative reaction from any other person present. Please enjoy the parties and celebrations responsibly and return to work safe and sound. * Michael Bagraim is a labour lawyer. This column is kindly sponsored by O’Brien Recruitment. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus