Universities SA (Usaf), a membership organisation representing South Africa’s 26 universities, clarified President Jacob Zuma’s announcement regarding free tertiary education. At the start of the ANC’s national elective conference Zuma announced that the government would introduce free tertiary education for students from poor and working-class homes, which would affect 90% of South African households. But Usaf chief executive Professor Ahmed Bawa pointed out that it was not a free education system. “The NSFAS system is being extended. There will still be a fee system in place, but for those students who are successful in seeking a place at university and who qualify for the NSFAS bursary, the fees will be covered by the bursaries. Students who fall outside the NSFAS bursary system will still be responsible for the payment of fees. "As indicated, for the successful NSFAS students the fees will be included in their bursaries." Bawa said for students from poor and working-class backgrounds, it had the potential to be highly beneficial. “The NSFAS cap is being reduced to R350000 in terms of family income, with the loan system converted into a bursary system. Up to 90% of South African households will not have to worry about university fees, as long as the students are admitted to a university. The bursaries will cover the full cost of study, accommodation, food allowances and books." Bawa said university budgets should not be impacted and that universities would continue to enrol students according to admissions' policies. “The announcement of the increase in spend on higher education from 0.68% of GDP to 1% of GDP, which is meant to be rolled out over the next five years, should have a positive impact on the university system.” Bawa said they were concerned about the sustainability of the new model, with one of the concerns being that it will not apply to second and third-year students. The Independent SA Civic Organisation said a wealth tax would ensure that free higher education was affordable and sustainable. “Free basic education for the poor should have been the starting point with expansion of no-fee schools across most quintiles to ensure that education is accessible to learners from poor households,” said its spokesperson, Jabu Mahlangu. Mahlangu said they welcome the proposed increase of subsidies to universities from 0.68% to 1% of GDP to cover tuition, accommodation, food and transport. He said they were hoping that the finance minister’s Budget speech would reveal more details. “The solution to student funding must address current and historical challenges, and increase funding to historically disadvantaged universities to transform higher education." Cosatu called the announcement drastic, but welcomed it, saying it was long overdue. “It provides the first step towards the envisaged free education for the poor as articulated by the Freedom Charter."  yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus