Kenneth Felix, 65, is a local community hero who had previously renovated his local park so that he could bring the community closer together.  The “switching on of lights” has been an annual event for those in South Close, Grassy Park, and is in its ninth year. When asked what inspired the tradition, Felix revealed that it was an idea he saw in practice in Bothasig.  “It was the talk of the town and I wanted to know what these people were doing. When I got there I was so moved and inspired and they motivated me to do something in our area because so many people are moving to the northern areas,” he said. “So instead of going out, we can stay in our own areas and have such a tradition. “When I read the papers or watch TV news, all you see is the negative stuff, despite some people trying to do positive things, it can turn negative. It makes me excited to see everyone come together, it creates great experiences.” Felix, who is also an ambassador of the  Cape Argus #CleanYourHood campaign, said it allowed children the opportunity to see the lights and that even for some of them, it is their first time seeing the lights.  Felix said though they’ve come a long way in the area, there is a lot of gangsterism and “unsavory things”.  “People are looking forward to it because they come from work when they are tired and now this is something light. My message to everyone is to show the bright side of life, go out there and make it happen, people can’t follow anyone in darkness, but they can follow each other in light. So encourage every person to shine bright. “In our area, I’ve just painted a house, which was a gift to my neighbours, and since that time, everyone else has started to paint just because one person did something.  “People know each other by name and before that they only said hello. We are coming together tremendously.” He said that it is important that everyone look out for someone who doesn’t have what you may have and make everyone feel a part of something. “Make life for someone else as you would like it to be for you.”   theolin.tembo@inl.co.za  Cape Argus