Some people go out to party leaving behind a trail of destruction. People from all over came to be part of the annual ceremony. The city hall was a highlight for me. The Parade came to life and for just a moment I became a bit sentimental. But the week’s highlight for me was to hear that in all the gloom and doom our Miss South Africa, Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters, became Miss Universe. There she was, for the whole world to see what a beautiful nation we are! I am so proud of her! I was lucky enough to spend some time with her at the Blisters for Bread event that took place a couple of months ago in Cape Town. Many NGOs are preparing festivities for the homeless. We will receive gifts, enjoy a great meal and be jolly. Some homeless people go back home over this time, to spend it with family and friends. The rest of us are grateful for the community going out of their way to make it a special day. This is also one of those events where we dress to kill! The ladies will be feverishly doing their hair and make-up. We will have many visitors from out of town who are having holidays here with us. One will see the number plate “GP” quite often. Last year traffic from Sea Point to Camps Bay was so bad it was faster to walk. But we are happy to have them with us. This was a challenging year for most of us. But some remarkable events took place as well. And we need to get inspiration from this. We can’t predict the future but we can decide on how we are going to treat the next person. Cape Town has such a diverse interfaith community and we all get along so beautifully. When you walk  through the centre of the city, one can hear people speak Swahili, German, and many more languages. I think in the new year we must start to engage with other cultures. We are not as different from each other as we think. For some, this time of the year is a time filled with happiness and memories. Others feel isolated and lonely. If you can reach out to others, please do. Too many people end up in ICU this time of the year for suicide attempts. Parents should always keep an eye out for the kids. We live in a society where there are some who will go out to hurt our little ones. And do not forget your animals! Keep them safe and indoors if any fireworks are going to go off in your area. This is the last leg of the race before the arrival of 2018. masekind321@gmail.com Cape Argus