A key cause in disadvantaged areas is alcohol abuse. It keeps food away from the mouths of children, leads to assault of women and children, and often causes vulnerable women to become involved with abusive men. In these areas, alcohol is commonly obtained from shebeens, taverns and even spaza shops. The biggest problem is that they make purchasing alcohol possible right there where people live, including early in the morning and late at night. The incidence of physical, sexual, verbal and emotional abuse of women and children would be lower if alcohol was less accessible. Few people spend money on travelling to distant liquor outlets, or make the effort to go to them, and they would not be able to buy it after hours. Many outlets are selling liquor without licences and to under-age children. It is interesting to note that the very government who complains of alcoholism in disadvantaged areas, issues licences to these outlets. The community in which they operate is usually not consulted when applications for provision of these licences are considered. People often protest in front of homes known to be drug dens. Why don’t communities also demand the closure of any places selling alcohol in residential areas? Places selling liquor should be limited to shopping centres, which cannot be accessed easily after hours. Police often crack down on hawkers selling goods without any permits. During the holiday period, police confiscate thousands of litres of alcohol from beachgoers. How often, however, do they have inspections and confiscate alcohol from spaza shops and shebeens selling liquor without valid permits? Will we ever find that these places are not only fined, but even closed down for their illegal activities? Will we ever see the day when these outlets are restricted from operating in our neighbourhoods? The public is usually urged to fight against women and child abuse, but what are the Departments of Social Development, Community Safety and Justice as well as the Liquor Authority doing about this key contributor to this abuse? * R Bartes, Manenberg. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus