So come 2018, we will enter the year with new leadership, hopefully, more stability and less corruption. While I am on about corruption, we homeless have been infiltrated by people who are not homeless at all. I call them professional beggars. They are relentless, rude and very pushy. Tonight they jump the train and go back home. One can even find mothers with small babies begging in the city centre. It seems like Greenmarket Square is the place to be for begging. However, I must say the CCID has a strong presence there and these beggars find it difficult at times to do what they do. Even our year-end functions were invaded by these people. They came to eat, received gifts and then went home. You see, they come, they take and then go. The general public sees them as homeless. These are the people in general that do not want help from social workers, the shelters, etc. Some of them take what the public give to them and then sell it on the deck at the parade for almost next to nothing. We homeless people are in a very sensitive situation. We now also have to deal with hostile strangers taking what is not supposed to be theirs. Over the next week, I can assure you that more “homeless” beggars will fill the streets during the day. And come New Year’s Eve Long Street will turn into a war zone. We live in the city. To us it is home. We try to establish a healthy relationship with the public and then these people sabotage it. I am sure that most of my readers by now know the people in your area that are homeless. Be on the look-out for “new faces” And be wary. Sometimes I am in conversation with people who know very little about life on the streets. And I try to have a bit of humour with it. Like if someone is in jail, I say they went on an all-inclusive timeshare break. I did not join as I prefer self-catering! Remember how I was telling you how hard it was to get drinking water after-hours? Well, with the water restrictions we now get told that they only have a certain amount per day so sorry, can’t help you! Very funny I tell you! This is my last post before Christmas. So I would like to wish you all a blessed time. Remember you are loved. And thank you for opening your hearts to us homeless. It has been an awesome journey with you by my side. Thank you for your kindness, tolerance, patience, and care. Enjoy yourself to the fullest this festive season. masekind321@gmail.com * Danny Oosthuizen, #TheDignityProject ambassador, in his weekly column for the Cape Argus tackles the struggles homeless people face. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. CAPE ARGUS