At Groote Schuur Hospital, a team of specialists performed a medical procedure that many people believed belonged in the realms of science fiction. They transplanted a heart from one human being into another on Sunday, December 3, 1967. The leader of the team was Professor Christiaan Neethling Barnard. The operation gave life-lengthening hope to Sea Point doctor Louis Washkansky after a road accident that took the life of another, a 25-year-old woman named Denise Darvall. She had been declared brain dead after the accident in which her mother had been killed instantly. Darvall’s father put aside the pain of losing his wife and daughter, to give permission for her organs to be used to save others. When Barnard pulled in his team and the go-ahead was given, 54-year-old Washkanksy’s life was hanging by a thread. News of the operation was greeted with disbelief when it was conveyed to the world on Monday,  December 4. For the next two weeks or so, the international spotlight shone on Groote Schuur Hospital. And Barnard became South Africa’s first celebrated surgeon.  Although Washkansky died 18 days after the operation, the medical world was filled with optimism that a heart transplant was a viable procedure to lengthen the lives of people suffering from heart disease. The transplant also highlighted a South African dilemma: would a black heart be considered for transplanting into a white patient - and vice versa. Barnard acknowledged that he had declined to use the heart of a coloured when it became available a few weeks earlier. He said he wanted the donor to be white because he didn’t want to be accused of removing a black person’s heart and putting it into a white patient. Heart transplants are as commonplace as kidney and corneal transplants. But there is one worrying aspect: there are not enough donors. The best way of honouring Barnard and his team for their pioneering work is for you to tell relatives to donate your organs for transplantation should you be declared brain dead after an accident. We urge you to do it today. Cape Argus