The licensing process allows for public participation. Members of the public may lodge objections against or comment in favour of the issuing of liquor licences. When objecting, you should supply comprehensive reasons. In other words, objections must be factual and based on concrete, specific facts. It should not be sweeping statements. RELATED: Shut illegal liquor outlets A dual lodgement process exists for a liquor licence application where the application is lodged with the Western Cape Liquor Authority and with the SAPS concurrently. Each police station has a Designated Liquor Officer (DLO) that deals with liquor-related matters. One of the responsibilities of the DLO is to inform the neighbouring residents of the new liquor licence application; Secondly, the applicant must display a notice of the application in three official languages at the premises. Thirdly, the Western Cape Liquor Authority advertises in the local newspaper that there are new liquor licence applications. And then it is also advertised in the Provincial Government Gazette. The WCLA also advertises new applications on the WCLA website in order to make it easy for the public to be aware of new applications in their area. The aforementioned efforts are to inform the public of an application for a liquor establishment. Our liquor inspectors visit licensed premises to monitor and enforce compliance. They work closely with the police and Municipal Law Enforcement. They conduct day and night operations and in the past year licences were revoked. The Liquor Regulations allows for fines up to R100000 per contravention. We are also involved in education and awareness. We engage with communities and schools by using industrial theatre and discussions to create awareness of the impact of the social harms of liquor abuse and irresponsible liquor trading and consumption. We also engage with liquor licence holders, communities, community police forums, new applicants, neighbourhood watches, consultants and the liquor industry regarding relevant liquor-related topics and liquor legislation as well as providing training on liquor legislation. We have a contact centre and we encourage everyone to make use of it. It operates from 7.30am-4pm. The contact number is 021 204 9805 or 021 204 9700; or you can contact us via email, liquor.enquiries@wcla.gov.za You can also visit our office on the 3rd floor, Sunbel Building, 3 Old Paarl Road, Bellville. * Philip Prinsloo, Deputy Director: Communication, Education & Stakeholder Relations, Western Cape Liquor Authority. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus