Cape Town - The mother city was voted best city in the world for a fifth time by readers of The Telegraph in Britain. The poll was conducted by the UK newspaper, and according to 90 000 people who voted in the annual Telegraph Travel Awards, Cape Town was the number one city, beating cities like Vancouver and Tokyo. According to the newspaper’s website, Cape Town clinched the title of best city for its coastal location, shadowed by the iconic Table Mountain, the fine wine and well-known Boulders beach where the penguins roam freely. Late last month, Cape Town was also one of the 19 cities which joined the list of 180 cities which have been recognised for their contributions to the development of art and design. The UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (Unesco) Creative Cities Network which started in 2004 aimed to connect cities which invest in promoting art and design as well as creating sustainable development initiatives to drive the cultural and design landscape in their respective countries. “These new designations showcase an enhanced diversity in city profiles and geographical balance, with 19 cities from countries not previously represented in the Network,” declared the Unesco director-general Irina Bokova. She added: “The co-operation framework proposed to foster candidate cities from the Africa region - a Unesco Global Priority - has been a true success with nine African cities now joining the network.” Zara Nicholson, Spokesperson for the Mayor, Patricia de Lille shared their excitement about this achievement. “It is wonderful to know that the beauty of our city continues to make Cape Town a firm favourite. The tourism industry is a very important part of our economy, providing thousands of much-needed jobs. “Accolades such as this certainly help to boost our profile and help with destination marketing. With this kind of exposure, we can continue to grow important job-creating industries and make even greater gains through more work opportunities for the people of Cape Town,” Nicholson said. Even though Cape Town is in the midst of the worst drought in its history this does not mean that business must stop, she added. “The City remains committed to working with residents, businesses and the tourism sector to ensure that everyone is on board with saving water so that we can beat this drought together and remain a top travel destination.”  theolin.tembo@inl.co.za  Cape Argus