The residents who pay up without a murmur are always the soft targets, whether it’s the motorist facing an outrageous petrol price hike or Eskom applying for another electricity increase through Nersa. Patricia de Lille and her over-bloated (and overpaid) executive have a lot of explaining to do, especially about the R1billion write-off for water which was declared in the budget. RELATED: #WaterCrisis: Ratepayers drilled again And how many councillors had their debt written off? I am not an accountant, nor in fact, am I good at maths but it seems to me many of the City of Cape Town’s financial models are flawed, at least when it comes to fleecing the law-abiding ratepayer. The City’s electricity tariff is also based on property values and if you live in a house above the threshold level you are moved from the Lifeline to the Domestic tariff. Not taking into account that you are the tenant responsible for the bills, and not the homeowner. If you could afford to buy a house then you wouldn’t be renting. Instead of property values the City should charge according to income. Now the latest tax on water proposed by De Lille is absurd, especially her comments in the Cape Argus (December 5), that there will be a public participation process. The City of Cape Town and its officials pay lip service to that concept. Perhaps the municipality can give an example of where they took heed of residents’ concerns. The Philippi Agricultural Zone comes to mind and in Durbanville, citizens have been ignored when they objected to development on the urban edge. Now we have a proposed water tax. We are being penalised by the municipality and the national government for their lack of will to tackle a crisis, the drought, that anyone could see coming from a mile off. Even when the ANC was running the City of Cape Town, they ignored it. And the clincher? Come the vaunted Day Zero we will be paying for a product, water, that we won’t be getting and then we will have to pay a tax on top of that. * Brian Joss, Milnerton. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus