The 2017 Cigna 360° Well-
being Survey found that 74% of expats in South Africa came to the country seeking adventure, and as many believed that South Africa offered a better quality of life, with a 40% lower cost of living than they had at home. The survey looked at the health, well-
being and sense of security of about 2 000 expats living across five continents. Gilles Nyssens, business development director Africa at Cigna, said perceptions of physical, financial, social, family and work health among expats were examined and compared with all working people. He said expats in South Africa were 
on an equal footing with their contemporaries abroad when it came to financial security, with only 12% confident that they had financial security should they be unable to work, and 23% confident that they have the financial ability to meet their family’s medical needs, compared to 26% elsewhere. Just 12% said they were confident that they had enough money to retire. Cecie Goodwin said she moved from England to Dubai, before settling in Cape Town for a job opportunity. “The beauty and spirit of this magnificent country really did move me. I felt like I was finally home and always should have been here. I thought what a wonderful and truly magnificent country to bring my daughter up.” She said the people were proud and passionate and she had made some very good friends. “We live by the sea in Hout Bay and feel truly blessed. Coming from Dubai, I had to become crime savvy, but never really felt in danger or scared. You have to just have your wits about you at all times, but it does not stop us from being kind and considerate to others.” Goodwin said her only regret was not moving here sooner. “Being a photographer and fashion stylist, I saw true artistic flair in every suburb. Cape Town has changed me to push boundaries and try new challenges, and be softer and a kinder person. My daughter has flourished and grows up in a beautiful, colourful and vibrant city.” Marie Thorand from Germany said she wanted to move to South Africa despite losing a friend to crime. “There are a multitude of reasons. First and foremost, I fell in love with the 
country and the people who live there. I would really like to see the communities melt and harmonise together and would love to be a part of it. I feel South Africa just has it all.” She said the crime was not an issue, and she spent six weeks travelling through the country. “People are afraid and avoid going to certain places, confronting other people and going out at various times during the day to minimise the chance of being a witness to a crime. People accept that crime is a part of daily life and don’t challenge it or do anything about it. I am not saying be naive, or to put yourself in danger, just to be aware and not to ignore these issues.” The survey also revealed that expats working in South Africa chose to invest locally, with 34% owning property in the country, compared to a global average of 18% of expats who own property in their current location. Expats in South Africa were also happier at work than any other expat population, with nearly 70% citing this as a reason to stay, with the group saying they were happier with their social context here than any other expat population. “For organisations that understand that expat talent deployed into the burgeoning markets of Africa is more than a commodity, engaging the hopes and fears of this globally mobile employee segment is important,” the survey concluded.  yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus