Trump’s move last Wednesday to recognise Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and commit to moving the US embassy to the holy city prompted international criticism and sparked protests across the world. Different religious groups will on Wednesday  march to Parliament to voice their dissent about the US and Israel’s violations of international law and in support of calls to downgrade the Israeli embassy in South Africa. Michael Weeder, dean and first rector of St George’s Cathedral, expressed concern that the violence comes just weeks before Christmas. “We know that there will be pilgrimages done all over the cities of Bethlehem, Nazareth and Jerusalem. God is not an estate agent and Jerusalem, the shortest route from earth to the sky, is a city for everyone and all religious leaders. Heaven belongs to all of us,” he said. Igshaan Hendricks, former chairperson of Muslim Judicial Council, said the activism is not religiously motivated, but is needed against the humanitarian crisis in Palestine. “The political dictatorship has caused all these problems and its not done in isolation. There has been collaboration between the US and the Saudi Arabians, and then there is the direct relationship with Israel. The city was peaceful as Jews have their rightful place in the city of Jerusalem and all religions lived together,” he said. Heidi Grunebaum from South Africans Jews for a Free Palestine condemned Israel and the US’s actions. “Their actions are in contempt of international laws and agreements. Jerusalem is home to all religions and people who live there. They have been transgressing on the people of Palestine and this will lead to further deaths in that part of the world. It has to be stopped,” she said. According to international media reports the announcement, which upended seven decades of US foreign policy, delighted Israeli officials, but was condemned by Palestinian leaders, who see East Jerusalem as the capital of a future Palestinian state. Terry Crawford-Browne from Palestine Solidarity Cape Town said a non-violent approach needs to be taken to solve the issues between the two countries. The picket at Parliament on Wednesday will start at 11am.   jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus