But with three days to go, there is still no sign of the army in the Cape’s ganglands and crime hotspots. And local crime-fighters, who have their hands full with gang violence, are giving up hope. In October, Mbalula had called on the SANDF to assist police in stemming high levels of crime in the Western Cape and Gauteng. However, at the time, the police ministry explained that  the request needed to be approved by President Jacob Zuma. Speaking during a press conference in Philippi East in November, Mbalula announced that soldiers were expected to hit the streets by 25 December and that an operational plan was being drafted. Happen “It is going to happen. We are processing it in terms of the operational plan. Then, after, the president will give us the green light. Don’t worry, it will happen before Christmas,” he vowed. A police source did, however, inform the Daily Voice that several confidential meetings were being held in gang hotspots: “There have been all these secret meetings about this army story, something big is coming.” Roegshanda Pascoe, of the Western Cape Safety Forum, says they are worried “as everything has gone very quiet” and communities are doubtful the troops will come. “The minister made big promises but look now, it is only a few days before Christmas and we still see nothing,” she says. “While Manenberg and Hanover Park are quiet for now, we have seen an escalation in gang violence in Lavender Hill, Elsies River and Steenberg. “We don’t want soldiers to come in and take over, we need them to come in and help bolster the police.” Manpower Pascoe says they envisioned that the additional manpower would help police “lock down” gang hotspots and search properties for gangs and drugs. “Gangsters know how to strategise and the police do not have the numbers to conduct a clean sweep of the Cape Flats,” she says. “So the soldiers should come in and together search every property. We all know that the aunties and moms of these gangsters are also hiding things and they, too, must be cleaned out. “But we are losing hope that the minister will keep to his promises. We can’t wait for people to die before action is taken. Just because the gangsters don’t shoot, it doesn’t mean they don’t have guns or bullets.” Police ministry spokesperson, Vuyo Mhaga, told the Daily Voice they are still waiting for a decision from Zuma. “A formal request was made to the presidency via the Department of Defence. We are still waiting their decision. "We remain hopeful that soldiers will be deployed. They [the soldiers] will be under the command of police, they will be a force multiplier.” Zuma’s spokesperson, Dr Bongani Ngqulunga, did not respond to questions about the reason for the delay, or when the president is expected to make a decision.  monique.duval@inl.co.za  Daily Voice