Timo Geldenhuys, director of Mauritius Sotheby’s International Realty, who lives in Mauritius, said he was aware of the challenges with the locals, but maintained that they related to only one developer. Shaz Maharaullee, an activist living in Melbourne, told the Cape Argus in an e-mail that locals are getting upset at South African promoters who are moving to Mauritius to bribe the government and “steal local beaches” to build hotels. “Locals are worried this situation might get out of hand. Mauritius is a peaceful island and is multicultural. Mauritian people have no issues with people enjoying the beaches, but this issue is becoming serious. “The beach where the South African promoters are building this hotel is deemed to be a heritage zone,” Maharaullee said. “There are many South Africans living in Mauritius and locals welcome them, however we do not want this to be the start of another form of apartheid in Mauritius, where South African promoters come to Mauritius, bribe the government, steal beaches from locals, call police to arrest protesters and make false promise to locals in terms of job creation,” she said. A group calling themselves “Aret Kokin Nu Laplaz” (Stop Stealing our Beaches) have been protesting around the sites. Efforts to contact the anti-development group failed, but according to their website, several beaches are up for grabs. “The collective does not fight against promoters or against the economic and tourist development, but against the transgression of the master plans, against the procedure of obtaining permits, against vices of procedures and the abuse of power by the authorities. It also fights against the grabbing of public beaches and the corruption of the conscience of the citizens to whom they make believe that development is necessarily land, that the tourism industry can flourish only through mega-hotel projects,” a note on their website read. One of the beaches where development is earmarked is La Cambuse where a hotel is planned. The Bouchon, between the public beaches of Le Bouchon and La Cambuse, is also threatened with urbanisation as part of the Mon Trésor Smart City project. There are also plans for St Felix, where state land was allocated to developer Pelangi Resorts for their hotel project totalling 18000m². Reports by Mauritian media state that at the entry level in Mauritius, you can buy an apartment for about R6million, and at the top end of the market are freehold villas priced between R13m and R40m. The Integrated Resort Scheme has made it possible for South African investors to buy high-end properties. Statistics from the Mauritian Board of Investments indicates that 30% of foreigners who have bought property on the island are from South Africa, 37% from France and 20% from the UK.  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus