Cape Town - The 10-year-old Elsies River girl who was allegedly used as a human shield and shot in the head when a purported gangster dragged her into the line of fire, is still recovering in hospital. The Muslim Judicial Council (MJC) said the man, a known gangster in the area, was being shot at by a rival group when he allegedly grabbed the girl to shield him from the bullets of rival gangsters . The girl, who may not be named because she is a minor, was sent by her mother to a local shop to buy rice. She is in a serious condition in hospital following the incident on Sunday. MJC spokesperson Moulana Shu-aib Appleby said she had sustained serious head injuries and was recovering in hospital.Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana on Wednesday said the suspects were still being sought. She was shot in the left side of her head and rushed to hospital, Appleby said. The violence is related to the drug trade in the area. There have been suggestions (on social media) that the drug trade will lead to gang warfare in the Beacon Valley area in Mitchells Plain, he said. Appleby said community forums and religious leaders alleged gangsters had military-issue weapons . We need state intervention. The duty of the state is to protect its citizens, and it has to ensure that law and order prevails in society, Appleby said. He added: It is a threat to the state for these private armies to exist within our communities, who are nothing less than militia outfits unashamedly terrorising the citizens of South Africa. The threats and intimidation of witnesses in the trials of gangs lead to an abortion of any intended judiciary proceedings. The state should employ the services of specially trained private security firms to protect witnesses and ensure that judicial proceedings are undertaken correctly. I condemn in the strongest possible terms the brazen shooting incident in Elsies River, said Community Safety MEC Dan Plato. The allegations made by the MJC I regard as extremely serious. As part of my oversight duty over policing in the province I continue to raise issues, including serious allegations such as this, with the provincial police management, Plato said.&nbsp; [email&#160;protected]Cape Argus