Cape Town - Pupils and teachers were thrilled to have five brand-new science centres unveiled at their schools across Cape Town on Tuesday.Forty-five Science Learning Centres are now situated at schools across the Western Cape thanks to the Science Learning Centre for Africa of University of the Western Cape (UWC SLCA) and Myrtle February, director of the Garden Cities-Archway Foundation. Ocean View Secondary School, York Road Primary, Spes Bona High School, Phakama High School and Manzomthombo High School have all received new science centres.Ocean View Secondary School was the first of the five schools to have the ribbon cut for the opening of its science centre.Head of Ocean View s science department Aadiela Sampson said there was already a science lab at the school, but now the new technology and tools would generate more interest in science for pupils. This learning centre, like we said, it s the start of that whole process. Redirecting that energy they have into a fun, hands-on experience. Sampson said this not only encourages the pupils, but teachers too. Teachers from Ocean View Secondary were also attending workshops hosted by the Western Cape Education Department to boost their science teaching skills. They are willing to learn and we have teachers at the moment also studying, going into the science field because of the interest that has now been generated .Grade 12 pupil at the school Juan-Pierre Rossouw said learning new experiments would be an advantage in his preparation for his future in tertiary education. Next year I m planning on studying, and I don t want to go to university and encounter things there that I haven t yet seen. Director of UWC-SLCA Shaheed Hartley said this had first started out as a teacher-training project. He said they had worked with schools and provided centres since 2011, It was UWC s target to build success and reach out to schools in need. These are more than just science laboratories. These are creative spaces where more than just the curriculum is taught... He added: The University of the Western Cape has always supported poor schools and communities. The department s Paddy Attwell said: We must make every effort to raise awareness of the opportunities provided by science subjects. The Science Centres will help to raise this awareness. &nbsp; [email&#160;protected]Cape Argus