Cape Town More than 4 000 pupils in the province have missed some of the most crucial parts of their scholastic careers, as they are still without schools as the academic year goes into a new month.The pupils only represent 0.45% of the pupil population in the province, but educational psychologist Catherine Radloff said starting a school year with one s class is extremely important. If one keeps in mind that the first term is only about 12 weeks long, then missing out on three weeks equals a quarter of the term. These children have to start their school career on the back foot and it will be very difficult for them to catch up, Radloff said.She added that, from a social perspective, starting late will impact on their ability to form friendships. During the first few weeks in Grade 8, friendships and groups are formed that often stay that way until Grade 12. The first few weeks are also often devoted to orientation activities and team-building exercises. Arriving late means that children miss out on this, so they arrive isolated and lost, Radloff said.Jessica Shelver, spokesperson for Education MEC Debbie Sch&auml;fer, said officials were working diligently to place the remaining 4 450 pupils.She said the department was confident that most of them will be placed by the end of the week.The east metro has the most unplaced pupils at 1 036, with the central and north metros closely behind with 985 and 947 unplaced pupils respectively, with the south metro having 802 unplaced pupils. The number of learners looking for places has dropped from about 18 000 at the start of the term. Officials have reduced the number by identifying learners who were double-parked , where they have enrolled at more than one school, and those who appeared on more than one waiting list, Shelver said.She said the department has developed an online system that tracks pupils looking for places. The WCED has to implement plans during the second half of the year to accommodate additional learners, and those who relocate within the province. The plan last year included placing 199 mobile classrooms in hot-spot areas by the end of the year. The WCED arranged to provide a further 33 units earlier this month. [email&#160;protected]Cape Argus