Cape Town - Mayor Patricia de Lille has officially endorsed the Cape Argus s water-saving campaign in its song Drip Drop (The Cape Argus Shower Song).De Lille has urged Capetonians to conserve more water, as usage continues to exceed the weekly target.On Tuesday, the Cape Argus ran a Twitter poll on how long people shower. Nearly 300 people responded. The options were 90 seconds, two-and-a-half minutes, three minutes and as long as I like .De Lille was shocked to find that 45% chose as long as I like . I would really ask that you shorten the time you shower, that you don t open the shower full blast, that you let it run very slowly. Because if we are going to run out of water, you may be forced in future to shower once every second day, De Lille said. She also endorsed Drip Drop and when the Cape Argus visited her office on Wednesday, her support staff were humming it as they went about their duties. The song was recorded by music duo Acoustic Element, with Amy Tjasink on vocals. Cosher Studios mastered the track. De Lille challenged Capetonians to shower in the time it takes for the song, which is exactly two-and-a-half minutes long, to play. Save the water. Shower shorter, she urged. While every effort is being made to make people aware of the water crisis, some remained unfazed and told the Cape Argus they showered for 10 minutes or more. I am not saving water. I use it too much even though I am aware of the current situation, said Angel Dudumashe, 28, from Delft.Dudumashe, however, said she would try to play her part to save water. The city needs to give us a limit in terms of litres and force us to take this issue seriously. Zuko Jongile, 37, from Khayelitsha concurred, but said that people should be allowed to shower for at least 10 minutes. People should not shower for long, 10 minutes is enough. Those that do not have showers need to make sure they do not fill their bathtubs when bathing. He added that everyone needed to comply with the rules set by the city because the current crisis affects everyone. We are currently in a crisis, especially the crop and stock farmers, because we have not had real rain in a long time and our dams are basically empty, he said.Wynberg resident, Reni Richardson, 48, said the water could be controlled if the right methods were used.She admitted, however, that she did not do anything in her personal capacity to save water. Too many people are moving into the country and too many buildings are being built and those buildings require water. My flat almost ran out of water this week, but luckily it rained. Antonio Engelbrecht, 33, from Eerste River, said that he and his family bath in small tubs every night. After bathing, I tell my children to take the water and distribute it on the plants as a way of saving water. Engelbrecht said the province needed heavy rain in order to solve the crisis. Water is valuable to everyone and an important aspect in our survival as humans. We really need rain, he said.Quinton Arendse, 52, from Wynberg also said that heavy rain was needed and that he had cut down on his showers. I try to shower for just three minutes. I don t use water as often as I used to, but it is very hard because water is important for survival. We need heavy rain for at least a week so that the water responsibility won t be that much of a burden for the people. &nbsp;Cape Argus