Cape Town Adults begging at traffic intersections and using children to gain sympathy constitute an ongoing problem for the Department of Social Development. Cape Town Adults begging at traffic intersections and using children to gain sympathy constitute an ongoing problem for the Department of Social Development. Department spokesperson Esther Lewis said they have had there were several cases where social workers were called in when children were put at risk by parents while begging. Ottery resident Keith Blake said he often saw a young woman with two young children begging at the Wetton Road and Rosmead Avenue intersection, and a man carrying a child while begging at the corner of Chukker and Wetton roads. He said it appeared the children were being used to soften the hearts of motorists. Blake urged the authorities to intervene an immediate intervention to this because he feels as he felt the children were being abused. Randall Johnson, a fruit vendor on the corner of Turfall and Jakes Gerwel roads, said a woman with a baby on her arms was a regular beggar at the intersection. She came four times a week and that is when she is does not have money for her drug addiction, he said. She chooses not to leave her child with her family because she knows that people will pity her when they see her baby and give her money. L ast month a Kraaifontein mother reported her baby kidnapped, but a few days later the alleged kidnapper reportedly claimed the child s mother had rented the child to her for R10. Children s rights organisation Molo Songololo director Patrick Solomons, director of children s rights organisation Molo Songololo, said it was illegal to use children to beg. It s a way to gain sympathy and get a few bucks from the public, he said. Solomons said children were often used as pawns to benefit adults, and there had been an increase in this, mostly in affluent areas. I think socio-economic disparities that exist are difficult to address, and those who engage in money-making schemes often do so for their survival and their children. He said there was support available and were services to support people in need where possible. Lewis says it deals with cases of children being used by their parents to beg on traffic lights. &quot;Children at risk are children begging by themselves, children used by parents to beg and children are placed at risk or are unsafe while the parent is begging. Lewis said when a report was made of a child in need of care and protection, social workers did an assessment of the child and their circumstances. She said the child s well-being was taken into account and each case was handled on its merits. If children are merely accompanying their parents while the parents beg and the children are safe and not missing school, then it is not unlawful, she said. Lewis urged the public to report any suspected cases of children who may be at risk to their nearest local social development office, or call 0800 220 250. Cape Argus