Cape Town - A shocking 67% of all domestic abuse cases in the Western Cape are linked to alcohol abuse. The Western Cape Community Safety Department recently revealed that according to its figures this statistic remains the most unnerving.The department held a public consultation session on Friday on the Draft Western Cape Liquor Regulations 2011: Amendment 2017, in Cape Town.The new draft of the Western Cape Liquor Regulations will result in tougher restrictions against liquor laws since it plays a huge role in domestic violence cases.The amendments of the regulations would try to put a stop to the illegal and unregulated traders to ensure compliance, and assist in reducing the harmful effects of alcohol.Previously, chairperson of the Athlone Community Policing Forum, Aziza Kannemeyer, revealed the festive season was a scary period because she saw a correlation between domestic violence cases and the high level of the high alcohol consumption. The festive season is a scary period for domestic violence. I don t call it the silly season. It is the scary season because the festive mood tends to become a period of gross abuse of alcohol intake, said Kannemeyer. We have an open door policy, so women come and lay their complaints, we phone the SAPS, the boyfriend comes with his sob story of having been drunk and then you ll find them together the next day. A case that was lodged gets dropped and the cycle continues. The new draft of the Western Cape Liquor Regulations is undergoing the public consultation phase with only one session left before the deadline for public comment.Seven public consultation sessions would have been hosted between January 27 and February 7. The last consultation is set to take place at Langebaan Community Hall tomorrow.It was previously reported that MEC Dan Plato said doctors who have made submissions at hearings mentioned dealing with intoxicated patients. The medical doctors have said that over a weekend, up to 70% to 80% of their patients visiting the trauma units are under the influence of alcohol. The deadline for public comment is February 28. Another priority for the minister is the policing of gangsterism in the Western Cape. We cannot investigate or instruct the police but we do assist the police and do not shy away from our responsibilities. We re the only province in South Africa to introduce a law that sets out our oversight powers. Plato said with the Community Safety Act in full effect, it provides the Western Cape Police Ombudsman to investigate complaints on policing service delivery. Cape Argus