Cape Town Despite dam levels being critically low, the City s efforts to preserve water have fallen on deaf ears. Some residents in Kuilsriver have been told by the City s call centre to wait up to 48 hours for a problem to be fixed. My neighbours had a pipe burst and the call centre told me to wait 24-48 hours as a turnaround time, said Edwill van der Westhuizen of Highbury Park.He said when he saw the amount of water coming from the pipe he immediately called the call centre. I was not happy with the response from them. Because we are on water restrictions, can this not be sooner? However when he contacted the area s ward councillor, Ricardo Saralina, the response was immediate: &quot;In around 20 minutes' time they were here, Van der Westhuizen said. Another resident, Rowena Daries, claimed she too was told to wait 24 hours when she reported a leak. You would expect them to be here within 30 minutes. Is water wastage not a priority? she said. The leak was fixed the next morning.Mayoral committee member for Water and Waste Services, Xanthea Limberg, said: We have service level standards to differentiate the severity of the water leakages. When our call centre receives a call, we send it to our dispatch team who will prioritise it based on the severity and whether it has a general impact or not. In other parts of the city, such as Mfuleni, car washers continued operating as usual, despite restrictions by the City prohibiting the washing of cars using drinking water. Through our enforcements we are targeting car washers, we're also paying close attention to them in formal and informal settlements, Limberg said. She said the City had been issuing a number of fines in various areas where car washers were located. Limberg said there has been a decline in water consumption and if necessary the City would implement higher restrictions.This week the provincial government is expected to launch the latest report on the state of water use and management in South Africa. The report will provide an in-depth look at the cost of water, water use by sector and investment opportunities in the water sector, and is set to give insight into the state of water management in the province and South Africa. [email&#160;protected]Cape Argus