The Imizamo Yethu Movement’s chairperson, Marcus Ndude, said: “It is not true that the people do not want to move, it is just a minority of the people who have their own  agenda.” The City of Cape Town held a meeting on Monday with the community leaders of Imizamo Yethu to push ahead with the consolidated super-blocking plan. Mayor Patricia de Lille said: “There is a minority of people who need to be moved so that the project can progress. We need to keep spaces open so that we can build roads and install services such as water, stormwater, electricity and sanitation infrastructure. We brought the consolidated super-blocking plan to the leadership and we advised that the project would take an estimated 24 months to complete. “In the coming weeks we will commence with preparing the site for water, electricity and sanitation services to be installed in Road 1. “Road 1 is the backbone of where all infrastructure for the surrounding super-blocks will stem and creates an access road for emergency services vehicles to access the area more easily. Road 1 runs through wider Dontse Yakhe. “As part of the consolidated super-blocking, several roads will be formalised and developed. Once all roads are completed, the area will have an easier network of roads and services installed to better serve all residents in the area,” she said. Madikizela’s spokesperson, Ntomboxolo Makoba-Somdaka, said: “Minister Madikizela has been invited to a meeting by the leadership of Imizamo Yethu on Thursday. “This will give him an opportunity to clarify the misleading statements recently reported by the media. Comments on the current situation will be made after this meeting.” One of the community leaders, Lungisa Bezile, said: “We welcome the presentation and we are grateful for the efforts of putting this plan together. We are hopeful that it will work. This is what we have been asking for - a consolidated plan for super-blocking the area. “We give our commitment to ensure the plan can continue as quickly as possible and not be jeopardised.”  lonwabo.marele@inl.co.za  Cape Argus