Cape Town - The City of Cape Town wants to put an end to temporary relocation areas (TRA) like Blikkiesdorp and Wolwerivier, which it says are on the outskirts of the city and far away from job opportunities. This announcement was made by Brett Herron, mayoral committee member for the Transport and Urban Development Authority (TDA), on Tuesday. Herron said the City’s mayoral committee “recommended to council that the Pickwick site, on the corner of Pickwick and Copperfield roads in Salt River, be developed for transitional or semi-permanent housing”. One of the City’s social housing partners will commence with the proposed development once council has approved the proposal at its council meeting on Wednesday, he added. Herron said the development of the Pickwick site represents a new approach in terms of how they intend to tackle the urgent demand for housing by families who are displaced or evicted from their homes due to rapid development, among others. The Pickwick Transitional Housing Project confirms their intent to honour this commitment. It is the first development to provide transitional housing in the inner city, and will be funded from TDA’s Communal Residential Unit budget. The estimated cost is R11.1 million to develop a facility with 42 rooms and 85 beds, communal bathrooms and kitchens, as well as access control to ensure the safety of those residing in the facility. “The facility will be developed on city-owned land. Once completed, a private non-profit agency will be contracted to manage the facility on behalf of the City. The development will provide households who have been displaced or evicted from their homes with temporary or semi-permanent housing while opportunities for permanent housing are procured. “Those living in the facility will sign lease agreements and pay monthly rent based on what they can afford. The City will subsidise the operational costs through its Rental Indigent Scheme applicable to Council tenants.” He added there would be more transitional housing projects in the pipeline – in Salt River, and other areas in Cape Town.  Their officials are conducting an audit of City-owned land parcels in Goodwood and Bellville. “We will confirm the locations once we have established that the potential sites are suitable to include transitional housing,” he said. Cape Argus