Approached for comment, ANC national spokesperson Zizi Kodwa simply said: “No comment.” This week, Khoza sent out the statement in which she confirmed receipt of formal notification of disciplinary charges against her,  by the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal. She was consulting her attorney, she wrote. Khoza took umbrage that she was being singled out. “In the recent past, several senior officials, including members of Parliament, have publicly raised their concerns regarding our president.” “No action has been taken against those individuals. The ANC will need to explain why I am being singled out. As a life-long and loyal member of the ANC, I respect the processes of the organisation and I will attend the disciplinary hearing, as is required. She then went on to slam the party as betraying its founding value of Batho Pele - people first. “Our current leadership is not putting the people first. Our current leadership does not live the values of our organisation yet they choose to se lectively apply sections of our organisation’s constitution to quell any voices of discontent. The ANC will not tolerate dissenting voices and these charges are proof. I was raised in an ANC that spoke truth to power and I want to belong to an ANC that still values its founding principles. “I’m being persecuted because I can no longer toe the party line. I cannot accept corruption, looting, a disregard for the people who brought us to power and the propping up of growing kleptocracy. My ANC suffocates reason, morality and ethical behaviour. My statements simply mirror that which millions of South Africans have been saying, they have had enough. To side with the ANC of today requires me to disregard my moral fibre. I am no longer willing to be an apologist for an organisation and a leader that has lost its way.” It was for this reason, she wrote, she had chosen not to accept police protection offered by Parliament, in light of the numerous death threats she had received since calling for Zuma to go. She had sourced her own security, she said. Meanwhile, it was unlikely that the call of Khoza and others for Zuma to step down would succeed. The president would survive a motion of no-confidence, whether by open or secret ballot, and go on to address the Women’s Day celebration the next day, Kodwa said. The motion will be tabled in Parliament on August 8, with a vote of 51% - 201 votes - needed to remove him and his cabinet. “President Zuma, whether there is secret ballot or not on August 8, will address the Women’s Day celebrations the following day as the president of the country and as the president of the ANC,” Kodwa said yesterday. It is believed the feeling within the ANC towards Zuma is frosty, and should MPs be granted the option of a secret ballot, they would vote against him.  lance.witten@inl.co.za  Cape Argus