Police have arrested a 19-year-old man in connection with her murder and rape. A month ago, Camron Genevieve Britz, 14, had a terrible nightmare in which she was gang-raped and murdered, but she couldn’t make out who the killers were. The young girl described her death and funeral in several letters and even pasted one on a cupboard in her bedroom. One of these letters has been handed over to police as evidence, according to her family. Her mother, Bereniece Britz, 41, says Camron was supposed to sleep over at a friend's, who lives just over the road, on Saturday night. But when she went to fetch the girl for church the next morning, she learnt to her shock that her daughter had never arrived. They searched for the child, and just after noon, Camron’s half-naked body was discovered in bushes along Slangkop Road innie Ocean View. The teen was in Grade 6 at Ocean View High School. She had apparently been choked to death with her own hoodie and her black pants were partially removed. The girl was raped, and found covered with an orange blanket, which the suspect had been seen with the day before. According to witnesses, Camron was mutilated and her intestines were hanging outside her body. Police spokesperson, Lieutenant-Colonel André Traut, says: “Investigation led to the arrest of a 19-year-old male who is currently in detention. “Once charged, he is due to make a court appearance on a charge of murder and rape.” Tevan Britz, 23, says he realised afterwards that the letters his little sister wrote before her death were disturbing premonitions of what would happen to her. Standing in Camron’s bedroom on Monday, he starts reading the letter pasted on her cupboard: “Mommy, I’m sorry for this but kry my lyk môre in my kis. “Ek is al moeg en swak vir die lewe, die Here moet my asseblief vergewe. “Môre staan julle voor my kruis met ‘n  klomp mooi goed op ‘n  lys. “Julle sal spyt wees vir wat gebeur het, maar mis my net vir môre met die wet, “Ek staan voor die kerk maar ek is daar in God se werk. “My liggaam en bloed is gegee...I’ll be around by Monday, get this on Sunday.”  Tevan says the letter handed to police reveals more details about her actual death. “She told her friend recently that she dreamt she was being raped and killed, but didn’t know who her killers were. And then when I read these letters, it was like she knew she was going to die,” he says. Tevan says he last saw Camron standing in a street near their home while he was on his way to a party. “It was around 9pm and I said she must go home and then I went to a party. Now I sit here thinking why didn’t I make sure she went home?” he says. Daily Voice