Cape Town - A woman, who has lived in Wesbank, near Delft, for 18 years, is lucky to be alive when she was attacked after robbers had gained entry to her house while she was asleep. Colleen Gerbe, 57, had left her window ajar for her cat when the robbers crept through and started assaulting her.Wesbank has experienced a lot of gang related violence and crime in recent months. Several homes have been petrol bombed in the area. Two weeks ago, an elderly woman died and her three children were hurt after a petrol bomb was thrown at their house. Magdalene Patience, 58, and her grandchildren were sleeping when her house was petrol bombed. It was the sixth petrol bomb that had been thrown at houses within in a month. Gerbe said that it was the first time in 18 years that she had been feeling unsafe in her house. In all these years of living relatively safe in Wesbank, my house was broken into. I live alone and the people who broke into my house know this. The incident happened at about 3am when I was sleeping. I woke up when I heard someone jumping through one of my back windows, which I leave open for my cats. The next moment someone was standing next to my bed with his hand around my throat. And as I tried to put on the light next to the bed, he pushed me down against the bed. I thought he was going strangle and kill me. He took my phone and ran out of the house. The guy who broke into my house with him, pulled my DVD player out of the electrical sockets against the wall and also ran away. I am lucky to be alive, because they could have killed me. I am afraid and don t sleep at night, because I am scared that they might come back. I feel like a prisoner in my own house. And I don t sleep at night because I sleep during the day. After midnight, I am wide awake. It s not good and is a horrible feeling to live like this. After staying in this community for the past 18 years, I have nowhere else to go. I moved to Wesbank due to my circumstances 18 years ago, because I could not afford to stay in other areas. I also brought up my children who are now grown and married here. This community has become my home, she said.Cape Argus