Westeros - It is often said, when you play the Game of Thrones, you win or you die. Author George R. R. Martin is known for killing off characters, and is not shy to rid the narrative of even the most popular ones. Chances are if you're a fan favourite, you're likely to get the chop. We've compiled a list of seven key characters that we predict will be killed off in Season 7. 7. Yara Greyjoy The Greyjoys have been through a number of tragic scenes, and somewhat nonsensical events in the past seasons. We've witnessed Theon betray the Starks, falling victim to Ramsay Bolton’s vicious traps; where his manhood was cut off and eaten in front of him, and lastly his father naming his sister, Yara, as the ruler of the Iron Island. Then came his uncle, Euron Greyjoy, who killed Theon’s father. We have seen Yara Greyjoy build a good relationship with Daenerys Targaryen in season 6, but the climax of Game of Thrones is that, as soon as the audience begins to love you, a twist in the tale disrupts the timeline. It is obvious that during the the unforgiving upcoming sea battle, Theon and Yara will kill Euron, however, Euron is likely to drag Yara Greyjoy down with him. 6. Greyworm The war veteran’s time in the series may soon come to an end. The mother of dragons, Daenerys Targaryen will lose many of her trusted advisers in her quest to rule the Seven Kingdoms. In the trailer, Greyworm has a cool new look, and the long-awaited relationship between him and Missandei is taken to whole new level. He might become another victim of the Kingslayer during the battle with the Lannisters. 5. Ellaria Sand (and The Sand Snakes) To be honest, we are surprised Ellaria Sand made it this far. It's likely her time is running out. In season six, The Sand Snakes went on a killing spree, making so many enemies that we wouldn't be surprised if they meet the business end of a blade. The last time we saw Ellaria Sand, she was persuading Olenna Tyrell to join forces with Daenerys Targaryen, clearly out for revenge on the Lannisters. But, we doub't she'll make it through the season - Cersei will have her head. 4. Tormund Giantsbane Jon Snow will have to pull the classic "Nooooo!" for Tormund Giantsbane. His loyalty to Jon Snow has been an honour to watch in season six. Time has come though for Tormund Giantsbane to be summoned by the gods. In the trailer for season 7, we see Tormund running with Jon Snow, presumably away from the White Walkers. It is sad to say, but we believe they will catch him. 3. Meera Reed Meera Reed is such a young warrior with a brave heart, if only she could grow into season eight to help Bran fight the White Walkers. Let’s be realistic now, they are going to arrive at the Wall, then Jon, Bran, Sansa and Arya will reunite. But, it is likely that Meera will have served her purpose making sure Bran gets to the Wall before the great war, leading to her being disposed of. 2.  Cersei Lannister Could this be the season the manipulative Cersei meets her end? Anyone who sits on the Iron Throne eventually dies. Winter is here, and the great war is coming too. Cersei wants revenge on her brother Tyrion for killing her son Joffrey, which we all know he didn't do - Tyrion and Sansa were framed by Littlefinger. Cersei's obscure judgement will likely see her try to kill Tyrion, only to be prevented from doing so by their brother, Jaime. How it happens is unclear, but we're almost certain Cersei will end up six feet under. 1. Viserion "No, not the dragon!" we hear to you say. Rhaegal, Viserion and Drogon are Daenerys Targaryen's babies, although we have seen her show more affection towards Drogon (who obeys her most often). We have also seen Drogon taking a few spears during the battle against the Sons of the Harpy. The Khaleesi's connection to Drogon is stronger than her connection to Rhaegal and Viserion, who spend way too much time locked away in the pyramid in Meereen. When they are eventually let out, we foresee Viserion slain and brought back by the White Walkers. Other predictions for season 7 include the death of another Stark - but will it be Benjen or Arya? Petyr Baelish could try to depose young Robin Arryn as leader of the Vale. And could there be a romantic future between Daenerys and fan favourite Jon Snow? That, and the introduction of more screen time for The Others (White Walkers) should lead to an epic build up to the final eighth season. * For more content follow #GOTforDummies on social media. Cape Argus