Former ANC president Luthuli died on July 21, 1967, and apartheid police said he had been hit by a train. His daughter Dr Albertina Luthuli said they were not convinced. After announcing, earlier this year, that they would launch a probe into her father’s death, Albertina said “very little has happened” and said the government needs to step in and make it official. “Very little has happened since we last spoke... it’s not an easy one. This event tomorrow will be like the indicator of the plan for the inquest, because that is the way we want them to go.” She affirmed that the family stood by what they said and did not believe what authorities told them about her father’s death. Albertina said the story of her father not hearing the train as it was a windy day was nonsensical as her father was an extremely careful person. “We make the statements of what we know and we have no doubt of what we are saying.” Albertina said they still remember her father fondly and even 50 years on, it was not easy. “We are three sisters left now and we are hard-working people and we are doing what our parents taught us, and that compensates in a way. It's some kind of consolation for not having him around.” Today the government will host a national commemoration under the theme “Unity in action and unity of purpose”, where President Jacob Zuma will make an address and lay a wreath at the gravesite, which is a national heritage site. Zuma said the occasion was an important one for South Africa and the African continent. “Chief Albert Luthuli was a phenomenal inspiration to many of us in the country during the struggle for liberation and stood tall against white supremacy and the racist government. Chief Luthuli was one of the leaders who spearheaded several demonstrations and strikes against the white minority government which led to his arrest in 1956 and being charged with treason.” Meanwhile, hundreds of runners are expected to make history as they take part in a half marathon and walk that will follow in the footsteps of Luthuli,  who was Africa’s first Nobel Prize Laureate. He was also known for leading  the defiance campaign in the 1950s. All proceeds will go towards Groutville Intuthuko Yethu, an NPO formed by the Groutville community.  yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus