Principal Riyaadh Najaar said they have been planning the pool for the past five years. “We have since raised R1m to build it at the back of the school  and with the assistance of willing organisations, this dream can become a reality sooner (than later). “We had three Western Province swimmers who attended this school but they could not pursue their dreams due to a lack of a swimming pool. With the swimming pool I also want to expose our children to other water sports such as water polo. “Why can’t our children play water polo? It does not mean because our children are from Mitchells Plain that they cannot play these sports. We need to bring the amenities to our communities. “We want to expose kids from disadvantaged areas to the same kind of opportunities the rest of the children in the country is exposed to. “It is of utmost importance that the school and the community have access to what will essentially lead them to having a better future.The playing fields are not level, and we want to change that. We have approached funders to support the initiative before, but they did not want to sponsor it, but we are not giving up. If we can gain more interest from the government and like-minded organisations, we can make this happen.” Najaar also plans to start an alumni group for the school. “I am also planning to start an alumni group for the school in order for ex-students to plough back. The alumni will be there to motivate and encourage pupils to dream the impossible. People like Dale Santon (ex-Springbok rugby player), who was a learner at the school, is one of those people who has ploughed back, and has done enormous things for the school.” Spine Road High School is known for its academic excellence and was the first (in the area) to build an education centre. They became the first school to obtain above 80% for a matric pass rate and, later, the first school to get a 100% pass rate on the Cape Flats. Spine Road High School has become one of the Cape Flats most sought-after schools in Mitchells Plain. Najaar said that the school managed to raise funds by hosting events in the school hall. “We have had market days, cake sales, talent shows and even cut down on unnecessary spending. All this has been happening since 2010,” he said. Rayaan Ismail, parent of Aqeelah Ismail, said he was happy the school wants to build a pool. “I fully support Mr Najaar because he has the children’s best interests at heart.” Grade 9 pupil Anushqa Kandan said a pool was a great idea as “those who have a passion for swimming will then have the opportunity to pursue their dreams”. Cape Argus