The power of the press is the only “weapon” we have to bring this unnecessary cruelty to the wider world. Unlike the people who respect life in all its forms, we are sure that the hunters and the Island officials will sleep well, celebrating each death as a victory. Are the discerning readers of  your worthy newspaper just saying “shame” and then turning to another page? Why the news blackout? Why are photos of the killings not being featured in the press?  The public has a right to know. As Capetonians wind down after work and settle down to their evening meal,  many in front of a warm fire, most are unaware that a war is being waged on Robben Island between cruel and unfeeling hunters who are exterminating the entire herd of gentle and innocent fallow deer with rifles and bullets on the instructions of  officials  who have no feelings for animals. Yet, by  their own admission, they have stated that killing the animals is inhumane and unsustainable and that sterilisation should be considered. In another publication, they say that the deer and the rabbits are an important part of the Island’s cultural heritage. Instead all efforts by kind and reasonable people to stop the killing and to sterilise and relocate the deer and other animals to safe havens, have fallen on deaf ears, even though sanctuaries have been found for them as well as a game capture team to relocate them. If one reads between the lines it appears 
evident that the deer and probably all the other species have been starving during the recent drought and have been scavenging in rubbish 
and in bins and eating plastic in their attempts 
to stay alive. Why were they and the rabbits not sterilised after the last extermination 8-9 years ago? Why have the authorities not cleaned up the island of rubbish and pollution and fed these starving animals prior to relocation? Why must these animals be shot under terrifying circumstances? They have done nothing wrong and are dying at the hands of the very same people who put them on the island in the first place. Why is the public so silent - why are we alone in our efforts to save their lives? Apart from the evolved people who have offered sanctuaries and the co-operative game capture people, we have received no help even after contacting so many officials, decision-makers and business people. Have Capetonians sunk so low as to be indifferent to suffering?  Has Cape Town become “ A  town without pity?” Everything that Robben Island stands for, such as kindness, non-violence and humaneness,  is being violated. Are these sentiments also being relegated to “junk status?” Remember the words of Mahatma Gandhi who said that the greatness of a nation and its moral progress can be judged by the way its animals are treated. The Cape Argus