Cape Town - Trafalgar High School principal Nadeem Hendricks has been acquitted of all charges against him. Hendricks was accused of accepting money in return for allowing large quantities of building rubble to be dumped at the high school last year.
He was accused of leasing a portion of the school property to a company so that high levels of demolition waste could be disposed of during construction opposite the school. Further, that he was paid R160 000. Hendricks was arrested by the Green Scorpions along with a co-accused in May for allegedly putting pupils and the environment at risk. The high school in District Six was named as the site of the alleged crimes by the office of Environmental Affairs MEC Anton Bredell. Yesterday, after the decision, Hendricks said he felt vindicated. “It has been a long and hard battle for ourselves and our families but in the end justice prevailed. I wish to thank all those who stood by me and gave me their support.” Last year it emerged that it was the School Governing Body and not Hendricks who leased out the piece of land. The SGB confirmed that it had decided to lease out part of the property. This is against the South African Schools Act. The case was thrown out of the Western Cape High Court because of insufficient evidence against the principal and his co-accused. Attorney Igshaan Higgins said they probed the matter and found nothing when the investigation was concluded. “The WCED respected the investigation by the Department of Environmental Affairs and Development Planning, and opted to allow the legal process to take its course before considering any further action,” education department spokesperson Paddy Attwell said. In the interim, Hendricks was still the principal of Trafalgar High School and continued community duties. Higgins said: “He and his family are relieved that this is all over. He was feeling a little anxious but he managed.” Hendricks’s health suffered during the trial. He was in and out of hospital because of stress and anxiety. “This case really affected his health severely while this was going on.” Hendricks is a well-known community activist. Last year he donated an organic vegetable garden on behalf of the high school. Hendricks’s main goal was to help build a sense of community solidarity.  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus