CAPE TOWN - A Mitchells Plain mom is furious after she and her family were allegedly treated to food covered in “hair and bone” at a Cape Flats burger joint. Asma Karriem, 28, who is three months pregnant, says they bought the food at Burger King at Promenade Mall on Sunday evening and left. But she and her husband Majiet, 30, smelled a rat when her three-year old son kept spitting out his burger. “He told me he can’t eat the bones in his burger,” say Asma. She then proceeded to check her own burger and “was shocked to find a long hair in it”. “It was not on the patty, but inside the mixture. I pulled out that long hair and headed back to speak to management. They were rude and disrespectful. The burgers were grabbed out of my hand and thrown in a nearby bin,” claims Asma. “The person then rudely handed me a R35 voucher. No apology,” she says. “I don’t want their voucher or a replacement, just a genuine apology. Are they making so much money that they don’t care about their service and what they feed people?” says Asma, who also posted her story on Facebook. But Rozanna Kader, deputy CEO for Grand Foods, says they have strict measures in place “to ensure that our guests always receive a top-class product”. “Her allegations on social media platforms were not the same as allegations made via email correspondence or telephonically. Nonetheless, our restaurant manager on duty and call centre manager liaised with Ms Karriem on separate occasions about her allegations and tried to reach an amicable agreement.” She says Asma was fully refunded and offered an additional meal voucher, which she declined. “Top of the range equipment and scanners are used to scan each patty to prevent any product with hard objects (in this case bone matter), from being included in the batch sent to our restaurants. We are confident that no traces of bone would have been found in Ms. Karriem’s patty. “In addition, the meal left our restaurant as a takeaway, as such we cannot take accountability for the hair found on the burger. Our crew members are strictly monitored and are required to wear a hairnet throughout their entire shift.” Story originally published on Daily Voice.