Its first campaign was launched in October 1987 and several others followed, leading to significantly improved breastfeeding rates. The government has been active in protecting, promoting and supporting breastfeeding through an array of policies, programmes and legislation, and has some of the most progressive legislation to protect it from inappropriate marketing of breast milk substitutes. But South Africa hasn't managed to clear the last hurdle - breastfeeding in public. Thirty years after it was first championed, mothers still can't breastfeed in public without provoking angry responses. South African health authorities educate the public about breastfeeding,but without supportive legislation and behaviour change communication, breastfeeding in public will never be normalised. Seven years ago the government made positive policy changes to encourage exclusive breastfeeding. Since then it has made several additional and significant policy shifts to promote and support longer duration of breastfeeding to 24 months, among HIV-negative and HIV-positive mothers. In 2012, the Health Department stopped providing free infant formula to HIV positive mothers. This reversed an earlier policy that promoted its use - an approach that had been pursued because of the transmission of HIV from mothers to children through breast milk. The reversal on formula milk approach was accompanied by a massive rollout of life-long anti-retrovirals for pregnant mothers. This makes breastfeeding in the context of HIV safer and lowers the risk of mother-to-child transmission of HIV through breastfeeding. In the same year, the department also passed regulations that prohibit the marketing and promotion of products that undermined and displaced breastfeeding, such as infant formula. This was followed by a revised infant and young child feeding policy in line with the World Health Organisation’s recommendations that countries have one public health infant feeding policy. South Africa has also had phenomenal success in establishing human milk banking. In addition, more than 70% of public health facilities have been accredited as Mother-Baby-Friendly. These facilities are trained and offer a level of service that protects, promotes and supports breastfeeding with immediate initiation of breastfeeding, practice of skin-to-skin and rooming-in to keep mothers and babies together. If breastfeeding is part of our African culture, why are people offended and disturbed when a mother breast-feeds her baby? If it is part of the natural order of loving and caring for children, why do people shame breastfeeding mothers? We need answers, and to take action. South Africa has not yet invested in the promotion of breastfeeding. But until the resistance of communities towards breastfeeding is fully understood, there will not be a shift in embracing it and South Africa will continue to carry the high burden of infant death and disease. * Chantell Witten is a lecturer and PhD candidate, North-West University and is affiliated with the South African Civil Society for Women’s, Adolescents’ and Children’s Health (SACSoWACH).This article initially appeared in the Conversation. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. The Cape Argus