South Africans will be doing their part for Nelson Mandela International Day tomorrow and contributing 67 minutes of their time to community service in a bid to give back to society. City Sightseeing, the company that runs the iconic red double decker buses in Cape Town and Johannesburg, will be doing its bit through an innovative giveaway that allows others to pay it forward in true “Madiba style”.The concept behind this giveaway is that people can nominate someone they feel is deserving of an amazing day out. Nominations are open for that special friend who needs a break, the family down the road who have not been on holiday in years or even the granny in the local home that would love a trip around the city with her friends. All nominations will be collected via social media and the lucky recipients will be drawn on Mandela Day. There are 67 sets of one-day double tickets up for grabs. Follow the link https://apps.facebook.com/my-contests/red-bus to enter the competition and fill in the entry by emailing through the name of the person you nominate and why you feel they should win. Each winning nomination will receive one set of double tickets to explore Johannesburg or Cape Town on the red double-decker hop on-hop off bus tours. Nominations close at 18h00 on 18 July 2017 (Mandela Day) and winners will be announced on 31 July 2017. This is a fantastic way to give back to someone who you feel needs a well-deserved break – a day out from everything to have fun and make memories with their family.  Reconnect and remember Nelson Mandela while on the City Sightseeing bus in Cape Town: Before getting on to the City Sightseeing bus at the V&A Waterfront (stop 1) be sure to pay homage to Mandela by visiting his statue, which stands alongside his fellow South African Nobel laureates. While on the City Tour to Table Mountain, hop off the bus at the St George’s Cathedral (stop 13) and cross the road to visit Rhodes-Mandela Place, where you can see the beautiful wire statue of Madiba, and reflect on the quote from his inaugural speech: “We enter into a covenant that we shall build the society in which all South Africans, both black and white, will be able to walk tall, without any fear in their hearts, assured of their inalienable right to human dignity – a rainbow nation at peace with itself.” From here pop into the small Mandela remembrance exhibition at the South African Museum (stop 14) before getting back onto the bus which will go past City Hall – the venue where Mandela made that first, momentous speech after being released from prison. Walk in the footsteps of Nelson Mandela on the City Sightseeing bus in Joburg: Where the Johannesburg City and Green Tours meet stands what once was one of South Africa’s most oppressive places, but is now a celebration of democracy and freedom. Situated on a hill overlooking the city of Johannesburg, Constitutional Hill (stop 5) is home to a former prison complex, as well as the country's highest court. Mahatma Gandhi, Robert Sobukwe, Nelson Mandela and students who took part in the 1976 uprising were all detained here. Take a step further back in time at the Apartheid Museum (stop 14), a world-class facility providing a journey of self-exploration into the days of apartheid through informative , interactive displays and film footage. Please note that children need to be at least 11 years old to visit the museum. Visit www.citysightseeing.co.za to learn more about our various tours to keep the little ones busy these school holidays.