Mandela Day: 67 minutes to connect on a very personal level with those less fortunate in our community. Today (in spite of all the financial challenges we face) is going to be a day to celebrate the life, philosophy and dreams Madiba held so dear. A day in the shadow of an icon. A man who held the people of South Africa first in everything he did. He taught us the meaning of sacrifice, freedom, and tolerance. And the power of forgiveness. Madiba empowered those living with HIV to look beyond the stigma and live life to its fullest. He was a husband, father, grandfather and friend. And he was one of the biggest heads of state this country and the world will ever see. Mandela Day is celebrated all over the world. That is the impact Madiba had. All around the world people will give 67 minutes of their time, money and effort to uplift  someone in need. On numerous occasions the Cape Argus has published stories on community members in need, and it has been heart-warming to see how our readers have mobilised and risen to the occasion. Random acts of kindness. One can almost draw a profile of our readers: kind, concerned and humane. A community that cares. Readers who get involved in supporting anybody who asks for support. I am in awe of some of the support that has been given in the past. When we started the Dignity Project, I always said it is our readers, our communities, that would embrace the plea of the homeless. And I was not wrong! One year later and we are stronger than ever. We even have supporters as far as the UK and Canada. Our Facebook page is very active as well. I will never forget the homeless wedding we had. Two days and it was arranged. The dress, the suit, rings, food, the wedding cake and the convertible BMW! Even hair and make-up. And all THIS because of the community’s involvement. Thank you, readers! So many nights I have sat outside and reflected on the project. And I realised that our strength came from ordinary citizens doing extraordinary acts of kindness. Independent Media is socially very involved in areas where there is a need. They have a long-standing partnerships with various role-players, and community upliftment is the order of the day. Today is Mandela Day. But it is also your day. Make it shine. Connect with us. Strike up a conversation with us. A kind word and a warm smile go a long way. As for me, rumour has it that I will be on a bus. A red bus. And then we going to have the best burger in town. I kindly ask our readers to send in pictures of your doings today to share on our Facebook page.  https://www.facebook.com/homelessinct/danny.oosthuizen@inl.co.za  * Danny Oosthuizen, #TheDignityProject ambassador, in his weekly daily column for the Cape Argus tackles the struggles homeless people face. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus