The 49 irate people from Mitchells Plain said on Monday they would march to the Bellville housing department on Wednesday. Adnaan Hendricks from the Ruo Emoh Housing Project, said: “Last Friday we were informed by the City of Cape Town that we are off their budget. This after we complied with many of the things they said we had to do. One of the things we had to do was build a boundary wall around the housing project which we funded out of our own pockets. "It cost R480 000. We have since built the roads, installed the electricity, the stormwater pipes and the sewerage systems, but because of the project being halted so many times, all these things had to be reinstalled. Now the City is saying that we are off their budget after they had agreed to pay the housing subsidies.” Shawn Cuff, from PEP (People’s Environmental Planning) and the housing project manager, said: “The project has now met all the conditions as stipulated by the City. But there is still a delay in the paying out of the housing subsidies for the building of the houses. The infrastructure was completed, with all necessary completion certificates, in December 2016 and that money, previously approved by province, has still not been released - almost 8 months later. "The City keeps shifting the goal posts with a complete lack of clarity about the way forward. Sadly, this is costing the beneficiariesin terms of the final product they will receive, through no fault of their own.” Brett Herron, mayoral committee member for transport and urban development, said: “The City’s Transport and Urban Development Authority is currently in the process of securing the available funding needed to conclude this project. “This project, located in Colorado Park in Mitchells Plain, will deliver 49 Breaking New Ground (BNG) subsidised housing units to qualifying beneficiaries. The infrastructure for the bulk services has been installed and it is expected that the construction of the houses themselves will commence within the next three months if all goes as planned. It will take about eight months to complete.” Cape Argus