Faarkhir Bestman, 13, has touched the hearts of many. Despite his circumstances of being raised by his pensioner grandmother Ayesha Bestman, he excels at ballet and contemporary dance. Young children regularly flock to his living room in Hanover Park, where he gladly dances for them. Shafiek Rajap, director of the Eoan Group Theatre Company, explained: “His grandmother came to me a few years ago with him and told me how he holds dancing concerts for them in their living room. His grandmother, who looks after them, would travel by taxi to bring him to practise which is a distance from where they stay. Later his ballet teacher told me about his immense potential and dedication and we decided to give him a scholarship. “Faarkhir not only loves dancing, but he saw that when he danced that it brought a smile to the face of his sister Akeeda, 9, who is completely paralysed. She is also the reason why he dances. He wants to make a career out of dancing, so that he can look after his sister one day.” Abeedah Mendell, ballet teacher at the Eoan Group, added: “Faarkhir has a natural flair for dancing. I saw this when he came to my class a few years ago.  He is a pleasure to work with. He is disciplined and works hard. And when he starts dancing his face lights up. I have never seen anyone enjoying dancing the way he does. He simply loves it. Having competed in many competitions, he remains a humble boy.” Last year he won gold in the Scholar Contemporary Boys category at the fifth South African International Ballet Competition. Prior to that he completed a two-week course at the American Academy of Ballet in New York. He ended top of his class. Yesterday, Faarkhir said he was very excited to be able to go and study at the National School of the Arts. “I always wanted to attend a school like this. I am looking forward to it," he said. "This school will help me to become the best ballet dancer. It is still my dream to dance for Queen Elizabeth in England one day. When I finish studying ballet, I want to take Akeeda with me around the world so she can see me dancing. I also want to thank Ms Mendell and Mr Rajap for everything they have done for me.” His grandmother, Ayesha Bestman, said she is very proud of her grandson. “I still remember a few years ago when I took him to the Eoan Group. I could see he was very talented. He was only 10 then, but he would have concerts and dance for us. Today he still does and our living room is always filled with children watching him dance, in awe.”  rusana.philander@inl.co.za  Cape Argus