He noted that MPs would be asked to vote on August 8 in the motion of no confidence in President Jacob Zuma and that this conference would have to come up with strategies to pressure MPs into voting in the interests of the people of South Africa. Pityana spoke of how the conference would have to break the nexus between big business and politicians to overcome the deep-seated corruption now apparently so inherent in the current administration. "Even though we are from different ideological and material backgrounds," he shouted from the podium, "we need a common cause to redefine power relationships and build the people's power to advance the people's agenda. This is why his living mantra that puts him to bed every night is “Zuma Must Go!”, he said. Wonderful stuff. And the gathered delegates ate it up like manna from heaven. This was what they had come to hear. The Save South Africa group, led clearly by those who have access to vast resources, as evidenced by the glossy folders and extensive printed materials and corporate executive leadership, had produced a narrative for the media and the public that our democracy was under threat. As South African citizens, deeply concerned by the narrative of blatant state corruption and the Guptarisation of the ANC, it is hard to disagree with this concern. It is real and immediate. While the immediate threat is clear, the common cause Pityana alluded to is unfortunately not that evident. Despite, or maybe even because of, the resounding populist rhetorical flow of the opening addresses, the underlying integrity of the call by Pityana and others at the conference for a common cause was undermined by an event that had gone almost unnoticed in the South African media. In April, the Parliamentary Monitoring Group (PMG) released the results of a survey they had undertaken among individuals and organisations who had participated in parliamentary processes. Among a host of red flags and indicators of democratic decay, the survey found that while “public participation is at the heart of the work of Parliament” and while “South Africa occupies a unique position in that public participation is constitutionally entrenched” - Parliament between 2014 and 2015, during which time the portfolio committees met 1134 times, had heard submissions from the public at only 39 meetings or 3% of the time. In short, what we believe to be our glorious democracy is in fact a shadow of what it was envisaged to be in the constitution. Pityana was thus calling on us to defend our dying democracy by supporting the old elite against the new elite, the very same condition that got us to this point in the first place. Of more concern, the survey pointed to a trend of elite control of our democracy and referenced other surveys, such as the one conducted by the Dullah Omar Institute: "Not in the House; The extent of and responsiveness to public input in South Africa’s legislatures 2009 - 2015", which had previously pointed out the danger of the “shift away” from participatory processes and warned that “as the ANC majority was gradually eroded and contestation within Parliament increased, the committees show greater resistance to critical civil society input”. Of even greater concern than the denial of citizen's rights to participate and the exclusion of ordinary citizens from the processes of democratic decision-making and oversight of the executive, is the narrowing of those who are able to engage with and in Parliament. In other words, Parliament has become a small elite engaging with another small elite to decide our collective futures. The survey found that a remarkably small group of organisations and individuals appear to be able to access Parliamentary processes on a regular basis, with a significant portion of those advocating to Parliament emanating from the business sector. Even among this small group of consistent participants (only 177 organisations and individuals during 2014-2015), they pointed out that participation was hamstrung by a range of factors. The survey respondents indicated that “the core problem with lack of funds, resources and capacity is that the public participation space in Parliament becomes exclusive to the well-resourced, funded and capacitated". Recently, I wrote about the MPRDA Amendment Bill and the difficulty of participation experienced by the affected communities. If those who are most directly affected by legislation do not have the opportunity to decide on their own futures, then dictatorship rather than democracy is a much more apt description. In our own surveys, conducted in over 100 affected communities and interviewing 565 respondents, we found that 88% did not know what the MPRDA legislation entailed and 79% felt that the current legislation was not fair to communities in general. The fact that our media (with the sole exception of one cynical report by the Mail & Guardian on the survey) and organisations such as Save South Africa, continues to champion an agenda that suggests our democracy is under threat, yet ignores a very real and imminent threat to our democracy, raises deep questions of motive, objectives and shared values. One argument about the current bout of state capture anxiety is, to paraphrase political analyst Steven Friedman, not that an elite controls our society, but that the wrong elite does. This was echoed by Peter Richer, a member of the infamous Sars "rogue unit", who warned during his talk at the conference that big corporates such as the tobacco industry have for some time now been creeping deeper and deeper into the state and that the Guptas were just a small player in the bigger scheme of things. The Marikana Support Campaign also reminds us that the massacre at Marikana “can accurately be described as the most brazen incident where corporate power was used to capture the state”, yet most of the current voices denouncing state capture were silent then. Even Anglican Archbishop Thabo Makgoba, in his message to delegates at the conference, inadvertently qualified his rejection of corruption and patronage as being reserved for those “under this administration”. Our public discourse is peppered with rhetorical allusions to public participation and the people's power, but our media and civil society leaders are not prepared to face up to the reality that our society is run by the elite, for the elite. Our democracy is in terminal decline while the elites squabble over the spoils of the state It is left to us to rage against the dying of the light. * Christopher Rutledge is the natural resources manager for ActionAid South Africa. He writes in his personal capacity. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. The Cape Argus