Cape Town - An 11-year-old boy is the latest to fall victim to gang shoot-outs in Kensington,Cape Town. He was found fatally wounded on Thursday. Police spokesperson FC Van Wyk said an arrest is yet to be made. “Today (Thursday) at about 8am Kensington SAPS members received a complaint of a minor lying fatally wounded opposite Kuku Town informal setting 14th Street, Kensington. The motive for this fatal incident is unknown at this stage. Circumstances surrounding the incident are under investigation.” Kensington CPF secretary and family spokesperson Cheslyn Steenberg said they condemn the recent shooting incident that took another innocent life. Steenberg said they are appalled and disgusted as many families are destroyed and gangs "feel like they are in charge of the streets". “He was sent to the shot at about 7pm (on Wednesday) and that was the last time her mother saw him. We were told a stray bullet might have hit him as three shots were heard. His body was found this morning (Thursday) by fellow residents of the informal settlement.” Community Safety MEC Dan Plato said he was aware of the shooting, as he had had a meeting with the Community Policing Forum (CPF) and the neighbourhood watch. “The shooting incident was brought to my attention last (Wednesday) night. It is worrying and shocking. No child deserves to die like that. This should have never happened. I am currently writing to the Provincial Police Commissioner about the problems in Kensington," Plato told the Cape Argus. Plato said he will see the family Saturday. “I want to send my deepest condolences to the family of the boy. And I hope the community will work closely with the police, to bring the perpetrators to book, to face the full might of the law.” Head of Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital's Paediatric Trauma Unit, Professor Sebastian Van As said: “The majority of children are not the intended target. They are caught in the crossfire. Nearly all of them are accidents.” He said the number of accidental gunshot injuries was a shocking measure of how many bullets were being fired in communities. Jessica Shelver, spokesperson for Education MEC Debbie Schäfer, said they were unable to reach the parents, but confirmed the child's death. “A Safe Schools consultant followed up with Sgt. Stemmet from Kensington SAPS, who confirmed that the body of an 11 year old was found in an informal settlement in Kensington," she said. Anyone with any information is requested to contact the investigating officer Detective Sergeant Atson at 021 594 7033. Cape Argus