Cape Town - The Sanlam Cape Town Marathon is set become the biggest road race in Africa having gained IAAF Gold Label status. The 42.2km road race has made huge strides since it was relaunched in 2014, quickly establishing its place as one of only a select few marathons in the world to achieve this feat. The Sanlam Cape Town Marathon aims to become one of the biggest fundraising sport events in South Africa, with 50 charities benefiting from the marathon this year. "It is exciting, it is a privilege to be part of it,” said race director Janet Welham. “It is something phenomenal in the sense it has never been done in Africa before, never mind South Africa. “We have great hopes in the communities and the athletes themselves and to our partners, supporting this race and being a part of it. We're hoping the whole of Cape Town, South Africa and Africa showcases themselves to the rest of the world.” Thabied Majal, Sanlam Emerging Markets (SEM) Group Executive: Corporate Affairs and Services, said: “We are proud to sponsor the marathon for the fourth consecutive year. The race is Africa’s only IAAF Gold Label marathon. “Under this prestigious grading, it places this event, the city of Cape Town and our continent on the global stage alongside famous city marathons such as Boston, New York, Tokyo and London – and with it, gives athletes from Africa the opportunity to compete against the best long-distance runners on home soil.” Elana van Zyl-Meyer, former Olympic silver medallist and ambassador for the Sanlam Cape Town Marathon, is part of the exciting “Challenge your Captain” initiative. This year former Springbok captain and World Cup winner Francois Pienaar will be running the race in aid of his Make A Difference Leadership Foundation. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. He challenged another former Bok skipper and World Cup winner John Smit and former Proteas captain Graeme Smith, who will both be competing in the race among others. Jermaine Craig, head of Independent Media’s sports division, says the partnership with the Cape Town Marathon is a strategic move to align the media company with this world-class event. “Running is the most accessible leisure activity and in Cape Town especially, it brings people together in a way that transcends our diverse cultures as the people of this city. This is what we strive to achieve with our longstanding brands as well – our media platforms are essentially bridge-builders and connectors of people,” said Craig. “We at Independent Media are looking forward to a strong partnership with the Sanlam Cape Town Marathon. “As the African continent’s only gold-standard marathon, we support the lofty global objectives of staging an event comparable to the best in the world, among the likes of the London, Berlin, New York and Tokyo Marathons. “Even more so, we at Independent have the strong Cape Town and national footprint to support the event’s growth in South Africa’s strong road running community, and to engage, unite and involve all sectors of the Cape Town community behind this fantastic event.” You can find an interactive map of the new route here. Cape Argus