Nightfort - Game of Thrones has some of the most violent deaths in television history. From poisoning to good old fashioned stabbing, characters in Game of Thrones are almost always guaranteed to die gruesomely. One of the worst deaths was that of Gregor Clegane - The Mountain That Rides - at the hands of Prince Oberyn Martell through a poisoned blade. He died a slow, agonising death over the course of many days due to the poison being laced with magic. However, he too ends up on this list with a killing of his own - he crushed the Prince's skull with his bare hands... 1. The Mountain kills Prince Oberyn   Cersei chooses The Mountain to be her champion in a trial by combat against her brother Tyrion Lannister for the murder of her son (Tyrion was innocent, by the way). She thinks no-one would choose to be Tyrion's champion and face The Mountain, that is, until Prince Oberyn spots it as a perfect opportunity for him to find vengeance for the rape and murder of his sister, Elia, and the murder of her children by Gregor Clegane. Spoiler: It doesn't end well for the prince. 2. Khal Drogo gives "King" Viserys a crown   An insulted, arrogant Viserys - Daenerys Targaryen's brother - draws his sword in the Dothraki holy city of Vaes Dothrak, which is forbidden. Demanding to be treated like the king he is, Dany's hubby, Khal Drogo, who has witnessed his wife being humiliated and insulted by her brother says simply: "A crown for a king." He proceeds to make Viserys a "crown" by pouring molten gold onto his head. 3. Joffrey dies by poison   Possibly the most hated Game of Thrones character, young King Joffrey - the progeny of the taboo union between Cersei Lannister and her brother Jaime Lannister - ascended to the Iron Throne and immediately stood out as a spoilt brat. He had his bride-to-be Sansa Stark's father killed, and fired countless bolts from his crossbow into Ros - one of Varys' spies - among many other transgressions. His death by poison at his own wedding ceremony was both gruesome and simultaneously satisfying. 4. Littlefinger throws Lady Arryn out of a window   Petyr Baelish, also known by his knickname "Littlefinger", is one manipulative man. Seducing a young, scared Sansa Stark after she flees the capital after Joffrey's murder, he takes refuge at The Eyrie, ruled over by Lady Lysa Arryn on behalf of her son, Robin. Petyr then seduces her, urging them to marry so that he can become Lord of the Vale. He then tosses her out of the Moon Door - a hole in the floor of the castle which leads to a deadly drop - and tells everyone it was suicide. 5. Theon Greyjoy chops off Ser Rodick's head... poorly   Beheading is dealt with rather swiftly in Game of Thrones - the blade is always sharp and true, and the executioner is always capable of performing his duties. However, when Theon wields a sword over Ser Rodrick's head, it takes him more than a few swings to get the job done. 6. Jon Snow dies   Betrayed by the members of the Night's Watch, Lord Commander Jon Snow is murdered by his own men in the Season 5 finale, leaving many fans gasping "um... WHAT??" Spoiler: It's not that easy to "kill" Jon Snow... * For more Game of Thrones content follow #GOTforDummies Cape Argus