I recalled my high school days and the glory of my youth, my strength which would never fail and the girl who would grow to be my wife, with beauty that would last forever. I recalled the exquisite lyric of the 
song Love is a Many Splendoured Thing: "Once, on a high and windy hill, in the morning mist two lovers kissed and the world stood still." How that has changed. The years have passed and we are older. We seem to move slower and the days seem to meld into a continuous sense of loss and vacancy. We become aware of the body as a location of pain, 
a holder of aches in organs we had 
almost forgotten. Standing around, looking vacant, is easier that sitting down, only because 
it’s going to take that much longer to get up again. Vanity makes us reluctant to use the walking aid that could make movement so much easier. We shuffle from the bedroom towards the kitchen and then pause. What were we going to the kitchen for? We smile wryly and take whatever advantage there is in being there anyway. As they say, getting old is not for sissies. It takes dignity and forbearance. We see the silly things the young do. And want to tell them that. We have cautionary tales. But they are not listening. And our wisdom sinks into forgetfulness and we sigh to think that they will have to suffer the same pangs that made us wise through experience. As poet Philip Larkin says in The Building: "We visit buildings with many rooms, and rooms beyond those rooms, each one harder to return from." He is referring to hospitals and other institutions that are designed to ease the old into eternity. Not many people make time for the aged. Time is just time, a waiting out. Perhaps we should teach the young to also make the other days of the years Mandela Day. Perhaps the young should be told that old age is not a burden or a curse. Perhaps they could tap into that wealth of knowledge based on mistakes and successes called life. Perhaps caring for the old is not just a throw-away chore, but an engagement with time and life. There is much that can be done. Read to them. Ask them about their youth and play out their dreams. Take time to walk them in the sunshine. Be relaxed but reverent. Be young and jolly but be alert to the wisdom that is free. Old age is not to be feared. It won’t last long.