All organisations have rules which members are obliged to adhere to. Khoza did something no organisation would tolerate - she openly criticised the leader of her party, President Jacob Zuma, and demanded he step down. Admittedly, she is not the only ANC member to have done so, but what has distinguished her from other Zuma detractors has been the extent of her criticism. Khoza must have known her stand would result in an internal disciplinary hearing. She must also have known that, if found guilty, she risked losing her membership of the party and being recalled from Parliament as an MP. That she continued to speak out illustrates just how strongly she felt about the issue. It’s likely Khoza will not make it to Parliament on August 8, when a vote of no confidence in Zuma is to be held. As much as the ANC is right to charge Khoza, it should not stop with her, but investigate and charge others who have brought the party into disrepute. This includes the president himself, who was found to have failed to uphold, defend and respect the constitution of the republic.  IT IS rich on the part of the ANC national leadership to have left the party’s KZN leadership to act against Khoza. The question remains: why is the party not applying the same principles to its president? Why have double standards? Is it not he, rather than Khoza, who is bringing the ANC into disrepute and tarnishing its image with his lack of leadership? Or is it because Khoza is a woman? What is it that stops a party’s national executive from acting against the very leader responsible for the rifts and divisions that now plague an organisation that was once respected even by its opponents? What is that makes a party’s national executive ignore the pleas of its veterans - people who sacrificed so much and gave their all out of love and commitment for the ANC? The answers to these questions lie with members of the ANC national executive. It is time they man up and deal with this matter once and for all. Cape Argus