Cape Town - An eerie calm descended on the Bellville campus of the Cape Peninsula University of Technology after classes were suspended for two days. The university refused to divulge any information regarding talks with students over insourcing. These talks continued into the night on Monday, but no agreement was reached. Protesting students have demanded that the university permanently employ contract workers. On Tuesday, buildings and cars where set alight and damaged. “After mammoth all day meetings with students and insourced workers I have consulted with the Chair of Council and in the interests of the safety of staff and students we agreed to suspend all activities, which includes classes and work for tomorrow 25 July and Wednesday 26 July," Acting vice-chancellor Dr Chris Nhlapo said on Monday. "Council will hold an emergency meeting on Wednesday to discuss the issue of insourced workers and their contracts." According to the university spokesperson Lauren Kansley there is no new information regarding the current status of the university. "There is no further updates till the Council meeting happens (on Wednesday)," she said. “What we are aware of, is that what was discussed was the grievances of the current insourcing statues," Oliver Murara, Student Representative Council spokesperson said. "We have not received any feedback whatsoever," he said. CPUT Central SRC Secretary General Mbaliyezwe Madikizela said: “We have lost all patience with management for not honouring the agreements made in November that security, garden staff, cleaners and caterers would be insourced within three months. We note with extreme annoyance that the management is dragging its feet in ensuring that insourcing is implemented and workers receive pay slips, uniform for duty and the remaining tools. We give management until the end of the month to give workers their contacts." The continued unrest is as a result of unresolved issues that culminated in the #FeesMustFall protests which broke out at university campuses across the country in 2015.  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus