These are some of the events taking place in the city: * China Town and The Tzu Chi Foundation, with the assistance of community activist Keith Blake, will donate 500 food parcels to poor people from Ottery, Wetton and Hanover Park. The event begins at 10am in China Town, Ottery. * As part of the Dignity in Action campaign, the Cape Argus, with the assistance of City Sightseeing will take 10 homeless people on a sightseeing bus tour. City Sightseeing South Africa will also be giving away 67 double tickets as part of their Mandela Day Pay it Forward campaign. Nominations close at 6pm tomorrow and winners will be announced on July 31. * Global and community leaders will converge on Cape Town on Mandela Day when they will participate in a symbolic walk from the Grand Parade to the Cape Town International Convention Centre. The leaders include Mandela’s widow, Graça Machel, former US president Jimmy Carter, former UN secretary-general Kofi Annan, and entrepreneur Richard Branson. They will celebrate the 10th anniversary of the group called The Elders started by Mandela. They will also launch their “Walk Together” global project. The starts at noon and will be followed by a music event at the CTICC. * A mass book collection will take place at the Bree Street Mandela Day Book Mountain. Bring your books to help build the book mountain. All books will be donated to schools, child and youth care centres in Cape Town. The event starts at 11am in front of the Community Chest (82 Bree Street). At 12pm there will be a human chain moment of silence. * Smile 90.4FM Making Music for Madiba initiative will have 67 buskers busking for 67 minutes across 67 locations around Cape Town at popular venues like the Waterfront, Cape Gate and Observatory Hall Island. It starts at noon and all proceeds will go to a city music development programme. * The Western Cape Health Department celebrates 67 patients who received hip/knee and cataract surgeries for Mandela Day. Its challenge is to change the lives of 67 patients. Taking place at Tygerbear Training Centre, Tygerberg Hospital. * Cosatu pensioners event at CTICC for Mandela Day will see the elderly enjoying time in the city. Free train trips will be provided to pensioners from all areas starting at 8.30am into Cape Town, to all 60 years and older, upon producing an ID book. Cosatu invites all old-age homes and pensioners to come and enjoy the event. * The Desmond & Leah Tutu Legacy Foundation will serve soup to homeless people at the Grand Parade at 10am. Cape Argus  