The trio was found guilty of contravening the disciplinary code for students. “The disciplinary hearing of the three students linked to the Nazi-like posters on the campus of Stellenbosch University (SU) was concluded on July 12, 2017. “The Central Disciplinary Committee (CDC) of SU found the students guilty of contravening clauses 9.3 and 9.6 of the institution’s Student Disciplinary Code. “After lengthy deliberations the CDC imposed the following appropriate restorative, rehabilitative and punitive sanctions applicable to all three students,” Stellenbosch University said in a statement. According to the Student Disciplinary Code a student shall not act in a manner that is racist, unfairly discriminatory, violent, grossly insulting, abusive or intimidating against any other person. It also prohibits conduct which causes either mental or physical harm, is intended to cause humiliation, or which assails the dignity of any other person. The three students are required to complete 100 hours of community service before the end of the first semester of 2018. They are also required to complete a restorative
assignment of which the key topic must be on how to constructively engage on campus and address different narratives. In May Nazi-inspired posters were doing the rounds at the university. The posters depicted an event happening at the JS Gericke Library auditorium. The poster claims to be part of a group called “The New Right”  and the headline says “Fight for Stellenbosch”. These posters are historically affiliated with anti-Semitism and white nationalism and often used as propaganda tools. The Student Representative Council, however, is not satisfied with the ruling. “The outcome of the hearing is really disappointing. “Because it’s been three years since the inception of Open Stellenbosch and also since popular protests have hit the country raising the question of white supremacy and how the university in itself is hopelessly entrenched in white racism,” SRC spokesperson Mishka Lewis said. Lewis said that students feel disappointed at the recent ruling.  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus