Twenty-two evictions were intended but the Sheriff had to abandon his plans after residents started burning tyres and rubble and closed off Millitary Road in Steenberg.  Sharon Davids said members of the community used to stand back and not do anything when they were being evicted, but said they has since learnt to stand up for themselves. “We know it’s not over yet, we are not sure what to do when they come again. The Sheriff came 10 months ago to evict some people and that was the first time community stood up and stopped it. Before people were scared to stand up.” She said they were aware of other evictions taking place around the city and said they refused to be moved. “We just made it public, whether we did right or wrong. We see what they are doing to people in Salt River and Woodstock and we don’t want to be in that situation. “Yes, we cannot keep up with the rent, but they are not even open to people’s problems.” Davids said many of the residents were not able to afford the rent as it had increased since they moved in. “They have overcharged people to such an extent that they cannot afford it any more. We have reached out to government, but no one is coming out. “Where are they saying we must go. For them to come and use force, for people that have nowhere to go, is unfair.” Social housing company Sohco chief executive Heather Maxwell said the residents pay between R1 000 and R3 100 rent for units that range from studios to two-bedroom apartments. The complex was completed in 2014 and offers 700 units. Maxwell said a number of residents stopped paying rent in March last year and after attempts to resolve the situation, Sohco initiated the  eviction proceedings and evictions orders were granted in March and May. “The tenants being evicted haven’t paid rent for over 12 months, during which time all other attempts to resolve the situation and to avoid eviction proceedings were unsuccessful. “In response to a disturbance on site, the evictions have been postponed to a later date,” she said. Cape Argus