During a basketball clinic at Heideveld High last year, Abrahams was identified by PGC’s Chad Songy, and invited to a five-day training camp at McDaniel College in Baltimore, USA. This year, Abrahams will attend two training camps in over a month. The first will be from August 1-5, and the second from August 7-11, in Ohio. He is set to leave on July 26. “Last year, when I got to the camp I didn’t know what to expect. I was overjoyed and the experience was truly amazing. I expect nothing different this year, but I am really glad that I get to stay longer this time around,” Abrahams said. He is the only African to have attended similar camps. He captained one of four teams last year and was recognised for his performances. “This is a community thing and we are proud of him,” said John Goliath, director of Heideveld Basketball Club. “It’s not just about basketball. The camp aims to help improve one’s leadership abilities and motivates you to become better at what you do,” Abrahams said. He  was selected for the national Under-20 training squad in December. His brother, Tashreeq, is proud of him: “He is the first in our family to achieve something as great as this. I am honoured to call him my brother.” Abrahams’s coach, Denwin Jones, added: “Ameer has grown and matured since he has been on the camp last year. If he can get a scholarship to study in the USA, then I think he will be able to play in the NBA. He is that good. He must just remember to come back and give us of the money he will make,” joked Goliath. Abrahams has given back to his community. He coaches children from his neighbourhood on Tuesdays and Thursdays. He also motivates youngsters who may be disillusioned about their futures. “Since I have started pursuing basketball as a sport, I haven’t had many role models around. This is an opportunity for me to expose other youngsters to what I have not been exposed to,” he said. Abrahams is a referee for the Cape Town Basketball Association, in its league which runs from March until September.  He has raised money for his flight to the US, but needs more for his visa  and allowance for his stay. *  If anyone would like to assist him, call 063 505 6266 or email ameer.abrahams07@gmail.com Cape Argus