Cape Town - The father of the 19-year-old student killed in Imizamo Yethu died on Monday after hearing the news about his son’s death. The teenager’s mother, Agnes Betana, said the one moment their son Siyamthanda was on his way to the sports field and the next they got the chilling news that a body was found and that it might be their son. So shocked was the father, Thabiso Betana, that he collapsed and had to be taken to hospital. Agnes is trying to find answers on why her son was killed and who did it. He died on the same day that violent protests broke out in the informal settlement in Hout Bay and it is unclear whether he was caught up in the protest, or killed in an unrelated incident. Siyamthanda was a first-year chemistry student at UWC and a former pupil of Wynberg High. His former teacher Elaine Fedele was so upset by his death that she put up a R10 000 reward for information leading to the conviction of whoever killed him. His mother went to identify his body at the Salt River mortuary yesterday. Later, she recounted what happened on the day. “My husband and I began to get worried after he did not return from the sports field and we started asking ‘where is he?’. The next morning a neighbour arrived and told me that they found a body and it could be him,” she said. Her husband was so traumatised by the news he collapsed and was rushed to hospital. He died on Monday at Victoria Hospital in Wynberg. “I have to be strong, I have to accept the fact that my son is no longer here with us,” she said yesterday before her husband died. Siyamthanda was shot in his chest and lost an enormous amount of blood. He was pronounced dead on the scene. Agnes described her son as sweet and kind. Community leader Markus Ndude believed that the same group who was responsible for the burning of community leaders’ homes in the violent protests was responsible for Siyamthanda’s death. “I am saying that this group that is opposing this super blocking, did this to this child. “When people shoot someone they need to take responsibility for it,” he said. The protests in Imizamo Yethu started on Thursday and carried on throughout the weekend. Three community leaders’ homes were burnt down by residents who were opposing the City’s super blocking plans. Agnes doesn’t believe that disgruntled residents are behind her son’s death. “My son never bothered anyone he was a gentleman.” On the reward, Fedele said: “I feel no amount is too much to try and find the perpetrators. My first wish is that he still be with his family alive. “However, that is not a choice anymore, so this is one way to help the family.” Betana said they will have to wait until the postmortem on her son is finished before she can bury him. Police spokesperson Sinathi Joni said the investigation into Siyamthanda’s death is ongoing.  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus