Ronald Harrison painted the Black Christ, which depicts Luthuli as Christ, “and crucifying Christ which  featured (former) prime minister Hendrik Verwoerd and minister of police BJ Vorster,” one of the film-makers, Damian Samuels, 37, said. Today is the 50th anniversary of Luthuli’s death. He died on July 21, 1967. He was a Nobel Peace Prize winner and was the president of the ANC from 1952 until 1967. Harrison grew up in Athlone and later moved to Mitchells Plain until his death. He donated the painting to the Iziko Museum, where it is on display. In 1962 at the age of 22 he painted Black Christ, which is a 1.3m oil painting. He had such respect for Luthuli, that meeting him later as portrayed in the feature film, was the highlight of his life. The film is called The Black Christ and was screened at the Encounters Film Festival last year, as well as on DStv  and SABC. Jean-Paul Moodie, 38, the other film-maker, said Harrison was on many occasions beaten and detained by the security police. “But he refused to tell them where the painting was. For us the painting and film is a commemoration of Luthuli’s legacy. When we first heard about uncle Ronnie’s life, we immediately decided to make the film. Here we had an unsung hero and humble ordinary citizen living in our own neighbourhood of Mitchells Plain. After being introduced to him we were intrigued by the depth of his journey. This started the journey in learning more of his life, the influence Albert Luthuli had in steering its course, and subsequently initiating the documentary. It was not easy making the film, but we were glad that the world could finally see it. “I have learnt invaluable lessons while making the documentary. I chose the creative direction of self-narration, where he told his own story,” he said. Samuels added: “Ronald and his painting contributed significantly to the struggle for the South African liberation. An 
ordinary man stood for what he believed in.”  rusana.philander@inl.co.za  Cape Argus