Cape Town – Being one of the new kids on the block can be a daunting experience, but for Sea Point High School taking part in its first Cape Argus Food Lovers Market High Schools Quiz was nothing the youngsters couldn’t handle. The annual competition officially kicked off the first of the round robin stage on Monday with 92 teams from various schools across Cape Town testing their knowledge of news and current affairs as reported in the Cape Argus newspaper. The teams were split into 23 groups of four teams facing tough quiz masters. The young competitors hosted by Sea Point High School were noticeably anxious when the first few questions were fired, but soon settled and let their knowledge overcome their nerves. Sea Point High School put on a show of quick thinking and fast fingers, but they also faced some stiff competition from their competitors Vista High School, Summit House and Gardens Commercial High. “It was very exciting because it was my first quiz,” said Siyamtanda Mpambani from Sea Point High School, which scored highest in its group round. “It was quite challenging but then some of the questions I knew and I grew more confident.” His team mates agreed that it was a challenge, but they had to trust their instincts and not let the nerves get the better of them. “Firstly I was very nervous, but as the times goes on I became more confident,” Mihlali Mtsolongo added. Musa Jokazi said: “A lot of work went into it, studying the paper, and even taking notes in class.” “I was so excited but at the same time I was very nervous but I knew that I went through my newspapers,” Mihlali Phalaza said. “It was challenging but at the same time you shouldn’t let your nerves overcome your common sense because then you’re going to have a brain freeze right there. “One of the exciting things was when you want to answer the question and press the buzzer first, you’re looking at other teams like 'I hope that it’s not the other team's buzzer that goes off'." When asked what they enjoyed most about their first round, the team had the same team answer – winning. Vista High School finished second in the group with Gardens Commercial High and Summit House rounding out the four.  theolin.tembo@inl.co.za  @thelionmutters