Cape Town – University of Western Cape (UWC) students have accused the institution’s management of being ignorant and not giving sufficient attention to rape cases after a third-year student was allegedly raped on campus on Saturday night. A 22 year old was allegedly raped by an unknown man who had followed her from a pub on campus. The victim’s sister said she is worried about her sibling because people have been victim-shaming. “People need to understand that rape cannot be justified. I want justice for my sister and I am happy that she came out about it. This will encourage other victims to speak out. I was disappointed by the institution and we witnessed the carelessness that the students warned us about it.” Police spokesperson FC Van Wyk said the rape was being investigated. Akhanya Chole, programme leader of Edu-Drama, part of the Gender Equity Unit at UWC, said the group was saddened by the news. They felt the institution's management was more concerned with image and reputation than the protection of its students. “The cases of the students who suffered sexual violence and rape are still dragging and some were swept under the carpet. Management is not doing anything to combat rape. We were saddened but also happy to see someone standing up for herself and opening up about the sensitive incident," Chole said. “Last year we received complaints from students who were sexually assaulted and raped on campus and as a result some dropped out while others have anxiety. The parents of the victims are kept in the dark. They are never told about these issues.” Chole said the sexual harassment policy at the institution is outdated, the panic button is also not working and staff are not trained well to deal with these issues. “After the Rape Culture protest last year we raised the issues and asked management to follow the cases as the victims are victimised at the police station. The management kept quiet, not even a statement was made, a month after the Rape Culture protest, another student was raped. Enraged students beat up the guy because the management did nothing even though the victim identified him.” UWC spokesperson Luthando Tyhalibongo said there are security measures in place and the university has taken punitive action against those who had been found guilty of sexual crimes and violating the rights of others. Tyhalibongo said a reference group was set up by the task team and will resume consultations shortly, after delays resulting from last year’s protest action.