Cape Town – Triple murder accused Henri van Breda broke character from his typically detached demeanor at the start of day nine of the De Zalze axe murder trial when he walked give his uncle, Cornelius Andries van Breda a tight hug before court proceedings got under way on Wednesday. Cornelius Andries van Breda, often referred to as Andre, testified on the character of his deceased brother Martin van Breda, and the type of relationship the family shared. Andre and his twin Bailey are the older brothers of murdered Martin. Andre explained as brothers they had always been close and that they never any serious falling outs with each other. They were never hesitant or reluctant to spend time with one another. They enjoyed every moment of their time together. He said that his brother was also a very humble and personable being whenever conducting business. “There was no place for double agendas, and no place for secrecy in his business manner,” Andre said. Andre also highlighted the family’s move to Australia, saying they had returned because Teresa, Martin's wife and the mother of their three children, wanted to be closer to her family. When questioned by the defence, Andre stated that following the murders, he and a few other family members had visited the house on two separate occasions. On one occasion, Henri went along, but decided to stay in the car with his uncle Bailey. Andre said Henri had requested the exotic whiskey from the house. Defence attorney Pieter Botha then stressed that the whiskey was a gift Henri gave his father which he had gotten in Australia. Precious Munyongani, the Van Breda's domestic worker, also gave evidence in the Western Cape High Court on Wednesday. She spoke of her working hours and how she gained access to the house. She told the court she worked on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, and that she was on duty on the day of the murders. “From the front gate, I would be fetched by a taxi to take me to the house,” Munyongani said. She had an access card to gain access to the estate and used a key hidden close to one of the Van Breda home's gates to gain access to the house. Once inside the property's perimeter, she gained access to the house via the back door, which the family sometimes left unlocked for her, otherwise she would have to call someone to open for her. On the murder weapon, Munyongani said it appeared similar to the axe she had seen on the shelf of the scullery in the Van Breda home. She added that it would be be on the shelf behind the ironing board in the scullery. She said there was a dog at the property and while she didn't know to whom the dog belonged, it would follow Henri everywhere. An earlier witness, paramedic Christiaan Koegelenberg gave evidence on Tuesday that he had seen Henri sitting with a dog when he responded to the call-out. On the day of the murders there was nothing out of the ordinary in the behaviour of the family, Munyongani said. She said she didn't notice "anything aggressive" in the relationship between Henri and his brother Rudi. “I did not quite observe the two of them because I didn’t see them speak to each other a lot.” The trail resumes on Thursday. Henri stands accused of murdering his brother Rudi, father Martin and mother Teresa late in January, 2015. He is also facing a charge of attempted murder on the life of his sister, Marli.   