Cape Town – The city council has warned residents and businesses to urgently cut their water consumption with the city of Cape Town's dam levels dropping to 21.2%, leaving around the city with just 11.2% of extractable water left. Collective consumption has jumped to 718 million litres – 118 million litres over the consumption target. On Tuesday, the mayoral committee is expected to propose that the council implements Level 4 water restrictions. This would mean a ban on all use of municipal water for unnecessary purpose. "We are essentially saying that you are only allowed to use a bit of water for drinking, cooking and washing. We are reaching a critical point in this drought crisis," mayco member for Water and Waste Services Xanthea Limberg said. "Rain or shine, we are now at a point where all consumers must use below 100 litres per day. Stop flushing toilets when not necessary, shower for less than two minutes a day or use a wet cloth for a ‘wipe-down’, collect all would-be wasted water and use it to fill up toilet cisterns, among other things," she said.   Limberg said the city had already begun dredging operations at the Voëlvlei Dam to prepare for the low level extraction of water. "The City is engaging with the lead authority, the National Department of Water and Sanitation, as a matter of urgency to request dredging operations at Theewaterskloof Dam too," she said. Limberg also urged the public to cut collective consumption by at least 100 million litres of water a day. The city also warned businesses to start implementing other alternatives in their business operations.   The city's top tips for saving water include: * Only flush the toilet when necessary. Don’t use it as a dustbin. "If it’s yellow let it mellow. If it’s brown, flush it down" * Take a short 2-minute shower. A standard (nonn-water-saving) showerhead can use as much as 16 litres per minute * Collect your shower, bath and basin water and re-use it to flush your toilet, and for the garden and cleaning. However, greywater use has some health and hygiene risks you must avoid. Keep hands and surface areas sanitised/disinfected * Defrost foods in the fridge or naturally rather than placing it under running water * Use a cup instead of running taps in the bathroom or kitchen, for brushing teeth, shaving, drinking etc. * Wait for a full load before running washing machines and dishwashers. The rinse water from some washing machines can be reused for the next wash cycle * Switch to an efficient showerhead which uses no more than 10 litres per minute, as per the City’s by-law * Upgrade to a multi-flush toilet and/or put a water displacement item in the cistern which can halve your water use per flush * Fit taps with aerators or restrictors to reduce flow to no more than 6 litres per minute, as per the City’s by-law   To check for leaks on your property: 1. Close all taps on the property and don’t flush the toilets 2. Check and record your meter reading 3. Wait 15 minutes and record the meter reading 4. If there is a difference in your meter reading, you have a leak 5. Call a plumber if it is not a DIY job Residents are encouraged to contact the city at water@capetown.gov.za or sms to 31373 for queries.