The City of Cape Town has proposed a strict hike in fines should Level 4 water restrictions come into effect on June 1. The heightened restrictions, being considered due to "the severity of the situation", must first be approved by the council and the chief magistrate. Spot fines of up to R5 000 could be issued. "Most of the fines have been increased from R0 and R2 000 to R1 000 and R3 000 to R5 000 respectively because of the severity of the situation at hand. The City hopes that the Magistrate will determine the fine schedules as suggested," the city said. What Level 4 restrictions mean Irrigation with municipal water: Level 3b – Tuesday and Saturdays for an hour, before 9am or after 6pm using a bucket or watering can. Prohibited within 48 hours of adequate-saturation rainfall Level 4 – Prohibited Irrigation with non-potable (grey or borehole) water: Level 3b – Similar use to municipal water encouraged. To be used by city departments Level 4 – Discouraged for seven days after adequate-saturation rainfall Bathroom: Level 3b – No restriction Level 4 – Flushing toilets with non-potable water encouraged Water features: Level 3b – Use of municipal water strongly discouraged Level 4 – Use of municipal water prohibited Swimming pools: Level 3b – Manual top up only allowed if using pool cover. Portable play pools prohibited Level 4 – Top up, filling and refilling prohibited Washing vehicles:  Level 3b – Commercial car wash industries must comply with industry best practice norms. Informal car washes to use only buckets and not hosepipes  Level 4 – Prohibited with municipal drinking water. Car wash businesses may apply for exemption Facilities: Level 3b – Spray parks to be strictly managed. Golf courses, sports facilities, parks, schools and learning institutions are not allowed to establish new landscaping or sports fields, except if irrigated only with non-potable water Level 4 – Operation of spray parks prohibited. Golf courses, sports facilities, parks, schools and learning institutions are not allowed to establish new landscaping or sports fields, except if irrigated only with non-potable water Overall individual consumption: Level 3b – No restriction Level 4 – 100 litres per person per day Indigent water allocation of 350 free litres of water remains unchanged.