Cape Town – The Voice of Parkwood, a community organisation, reports that Grassy Park police officers do not respond to complaints of infringement of protection orders. Reverend Paul Phillips, from the organisation, said he had escorted complainants to the police station at least three times, and on each occasion, the officers would turn away the women who had protection orders against a person who had returned to threaten them again. Sadia Adams of Parkwood said: “There was a knock on my door and I saw it was my nephew, my sister’s son, who used to live with us. “I asked him if he was coming for his clothes and he said ‘yes’. As soon as he was inside, he started swearing at me and pushing me around and hit me on my back. "Last month, I got a protection order against him from the Wynberg court because he was verbally abusive all the time and broke my furniture.” When Phillips escorted Adams to the police station on Sunday, the duty officer did not read the interdict, which indicated that Adams’s nephew verbally intimidated her, but said they could not assist her and that she had to go to a doctor. “The impression is given that the protection orders are not a priority and are thus not taken seriously. We have on record contactable references of cases where clients were told to go back home, 'the police are on the way' but they never pitched. “There are long waiting times for a van or an officer to attend to them and unprofessional behaviour when distressed clients report matters. Then there are the ill-informed responses by officers on duty concerning orders and their execution. “One woman was told to go to court on Monday, while her life was being threatened now: she was being victimised and told by the duty officer she couldn't be assisted,” said Phillips. Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said that where there was a protection order in place and the person named in the order contravened it, the police had to take action. Rwexana added that a list of names of complainants and the attending officers must be handed in so that the matter could be investigated by the station commander.