Waving placards, community members showed their disgust at the killing and the way the police handled the disappearance of the child. Imraahn Mukaddam, a community activist, who was also in court on Wednesday, said he was impressed with the community. “The community is not happy with what has happened to Courtney and today you could see it.” About 200 people stood with placards outside the court.  Other community members wore T-shirts, which read: “Justice for Courtney.” Mortimer Saunders appeared swiftly and the case was postponed to August 24 for further investigation. Today Police Minister Fikile Mbalula will hand over a mobile police station to the community at the community hall where Courtney’s funeral took place. The minister said in a statement this was to fulfil a promise he made to the community. Meanwhile, another promise that was made to the mother of Courtney is in the process of being fulfilled. The Jacob Zuma Foundation has been in touch with Juanita Pieters, Courtney’s mother, after the president promised her a house of her own. Pieters said she does not want to live in her current house anymore because it is a constant reminder of the man who was arrested for her child’s murder. Roegshanda Pascoe, a spokesperson for the family, said  they have been speaking to the Jacob Zuma Foundation about the matter. “The family is looking forward to a house of their own in a quiet area.” The foundation confirmed it was  looking into the matter. It said it was looking at two options - buying the family a house or building a new one. Pieters said she was elated that the family would  have their first house. “Because, I have to look at that room (in which the suspect stayed) every day. There are too many memories of my child in this house. I don’t want to stay in this here anymore. Just last night (Tuesday) I thought that I heard her voice in the kitchen. I miss my child so much. When he (Saunders) appeared in court, I felt like jumping out of my seat to ask him ‘why’. Why my Courtney? She was a lovely child. “How could anyone have killed her? After the funeral her seven-year-old brother asked me when she is coming home. “I told him that she won’t be coming home because she is with Jesus now.”  rusana.philander@inl.co.za  Cape Argus