Cape Town – The deputy chairperson of the Elsies River Community Policing Forum has resigned out of frustration at the way police handled the search for Courtney Pieters, 3. Imraahn Mukaddam, a vocal community activist, said he had a “guilty conscience”. “I feel guilty because I did not speak out against police. They bungled the case. Nine days of searching came up with nothing. It was only when the community came out to search that Courtney was found.” He said he was also disappointed that the police did not search the home and interrogate the current suspect, who was the last person who was Courtney. Police spokesperson André Traut said Elsies River police management learnt of Mukaddam’s resignation via social media. “Allegations levelled at police regarding the manner in which the case was handled are being investigated. The outcome is yet to be determined and this office is not in a position to offer a comment. Crimes against women and children are a top priority for the Western Cape police and the allegations of inefficiency are regarded in a very serious light,” said Traut. Earlier on Tuesday, Elsies River residents filled up court 8 of the Goodwood Magistrate’s Court after it was reported that the man accused of killing Courtney would make an appearance. There was also a high police visibility in and outside the courtroom. The prosecutor announced the matter was not put on the roll and the suspect would appear on Wednesday. Meanwhile, parents of the little girl, together with trauma counsellor and Manenberg Safety Forum chairperson Roegshanda Pascoe, visited the scene where Courtney's body was found, in Epping, for the first time yesterday. Pascoe said Courtney’s parents had been well prepared through counselling. Chrisna Prins, grandmother of murdered Bredasdorp girl Kayde Williams, went to offer the Pieters family support. Two years ago, Kayde, 5, was found dead in Bredasdorp after she was reported missing. Her body was found under a tree not far from her home. “I am the only one here who understands what this family is going through. I went through this and there has been no justice for my granddaughter.” Residents have said they would lobby against bail for the suspect.  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za 