Cape Town – Kirstenhof neighbourhood watch member Jarred van Wyk said when he found a running shoe matching the description of the pair of shoes 16-year-old Franziska Blochliger was reportedly wearing, he realised that they were searching for a body. "I found the takkie but was not sure on its description. I called the neighbourhood watch for a clear description a Nike takkie, turquoise in colour. With that I got a chilling feeling. I realised I won’t find a little girl that was going to answer me back by calling out her name,” he said. Van Wyk was the second person to see Franziska’s body after it was found by 56-year-old nurse, Yvonne Elger, in the fynbos in Tokai Forest. On Monday Van Wyk gave evidence in the Western Cape High Court detailing the evening of March 7, 2016 when the 16-year-old’s body was found naked, hidden in the fynbos. "Yvonne came across the body, she screamed. I ran through the fynbos and consoled her. I told her she had seen enough and that she should turn around. "I then went to the body and felt for a pulse on both her wrists and neck. She did not have a pulse, but her body temperature was still warm," he said. Van Wyk said he could not see Franziska’s face. Her body was hidden under a rotting piece of wood. Van Wyk and his wife Nadine Van Wyk had seen a message on the local neighbourhood watch’s WhatsApp group about a missing teen. He said they arrived at the forest at around 5.05pm and were met by Franziska’s distraught father. "Everyone was searching in the forest between the trees and there was no one in the fynbos. My wife and I decided to walk in the fynbos – we split and were about ten metres apart,” he said. It was at that point where he met with Elger who came across the body minutes after they separated. Earlier, the court was showed video evidence. In the video, murder accused Howard Oliver described how he grabbed the teenager and robbed her of her iPhone. He admitted to stripping off her pants, but denied raping and killing her. He said when he left the scene she was still breathing. Meanwhile, his childhood friend Mark Jafta testified that Oliver had attempted to sell him a cellphone. Jafta said he was at work washing taxis when Oliver shouted that he had “a kwaai phone” for him. "I didn't answer him. I just continued with my work," Jafta said. The matter continues.  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za 