Cape Town – The police have opened a murder investigation after the mutilated body of a woman was discovered in Langa, Cape Town on Monday. Unathi Madotyeni, 33, was found in Zone 26, Langa, after she was last seen out with friends on Sunday evening. Her family believes she may have been brutally raped and had her eyes gouged out, but the police could not confirm this. Police spokesperson FC van Wyk said: "A case of murder has been opened for investigation. According to information, on Monday at 8.40am a body of a woman was found in Zone 26, Langa with multiple injuries. Circumstances surrounding this incident are under investigation. No one has been arrested at this stage." Madotyeni was last seen leaving her home, in Zone 25, with a friend Sunday evening. The two were heading to a nearby tavern to meet up with other friends. She did not return home that night. Nolovuyo Booi, her cousin, said the friend had come to tell the family what had happened. "She said the two of them, together with a male friend left the tavern to go and get food at her aunt’s place. While the friend was busy warming the food next door Unathi left and this male friend of theirs followed. "She said she did not see Unathi again that night," said Nolovuyo. When the family arrived at the scene in Zone 26 on Tuesday, the body had already been covered. Booi said people from that street said they heard screams at around 2am on Sunday, but were fearful to come out. "We were not allowed to view the body as yet. But we believe that she was raped, sodomised and her eyes gouged out. Those who saw the body say objects were hanging out from her lower body and her pants had been pulled down. They told us her eyes were taken out and she had been beaten," said Nolovuyo. Madotyeni’s aunt, Nompulu Booi, said she had been like a mother to Unathi. "I kept warning her to stop going out at night. Just on Saturday she was attacked outside the yard while returning home. She wouldn’t listen to me it was as if she knew her fate," said Nompulu. The family said it was truly saddened by her tragic passing and wanted justice for her murder. Her uncle Ntsikelelo Mthetho said: "She was a very bubbly soul who loved joking around and was quick to apologise if she wronged someone. "The way she died was not fitting. It would have appeased us if she had been sick or something, this was unexpected. We do fear who is next to die in such a manner. We want police to take action and arrest the perpetrator." The family said police detectives informed them that the male friend, last seen with Madotyeni, was taken in for questioning. However, Van Wyk did not confirm this.  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus