Cape Town – Publicity agency Pamberi Communications has compiled a list of all you need to know to make sure you get into Cape Town Stadium as safely and conveniently as possible. Gates open at 4pm and the support act, Sketchy Bongo, starts its set at 7.30pm. Justin Bieber takes to the stage at 8.30pm. Obviously, access will be restricted. For those thinking they can chance it to be first into the stadium, no camping is allowed outside the venue. No persons will be allowed to queue outside the venue until 10am on Wednesday. "If you fail to comply with this requirement and refuse to vacate the area after being instructed to do so by security and/or SAPS, we reserve the right to confiscate your ticket and escort you from the venue. In the case of an unaccompanied minor your parents/guardian will be contacted to collect you from the venue and if they fail to do so within a reasonable time we will contact City social services," the company said in an Instagram post which included an aerial map of the venue. "Please note: You risk missing the show without the option of a refund if you choose to ignore this very important safety & security requirement." Drop & Go (Parents/Taxis/Uber) Patrons are advised to Drop & Go and Pick-up in the CBD around the MyCiTi Civic Centre station as the free-to-event-ticket-holder shuttle service will be operational and is as safe and secure as dropping off and trying to pick up people at the stadium, but far quicker with dedicated bus lanes. The best area is in the CBD (DF Malan St, Jan Smuts St and other areas around the Civic Bus Station that can be used – but no parking in Hertzog Blvd itself). Pick-up after the event at the stadium will take over 40 minutes additional time. P4 will be made available as a Pick-up area after the event (NOT a Drop & Go before the event). That is, for those that choose to face the extra traffic and drop and/or pick up at the stadium, the normal drop and go will be on Helen Suzman Blvd (city-bound) between Beach and Vlei Rds.