Delivering the keynote address at the Moses Kotane memorial lecture in Rustenburg he said: “This past week, the South African Council of Churches, a moral mainstay throughout the Struggle for democracy, warned that we were on the brink of becoming a ‘mafia state’. It is critical that an independent judicial commission be established to thoroughly investigate all allegations of state capture. “Our formations, especially the ANC, must implement lifestyle audits of all those in leadership structures. “We must introduce, as has been proposed by the ANC this week, transparency into party political funding. “All of these steps must be implemented without fear or favour. They must not be guided by factional interests.” The call was echoed by the SACP. At a national imbizo convened in Ekhuruleni over the weekend, the tripartite alliance partner adopted a declaration on a “minimum platform of action” anchored on various demands, including the urgent appointment of an independent judicial commission of inquiry into state capture, which was the key remedial action required by the public protector. “The imbizo was convened in the context of ‘deepening, society-wide concern about challenges of leadership, moral decay and multiple social and economic crises’.” It was attended by participants from 33 organisations. These included the SACP, ANC, the Congress of SA Trade Unions, SA National Civic Organisation, ANC stalwarts and veterans, the Young Communists League of SA, JHB Against Injustice, Business Leadership South Africa, Save South Africa, various components of the community constituency in Nedlac, and grassroots activists. The Imbizo received a presentation from the SA Council of Churches’ “unburdening panel” and shared concerns on state capture. “Despite advances we have not effectively responded to the persisting social and economic crises in which the majority of South Africans find themselves. The ability to fundamentally transform society is now being corroded by systemic corruption in both the public and private sectors,” it said. The declaration demanded an immediate end to the abuse and factionalising of the criminal justice system, notably the Hawks and the National Prosecuting Authority.- ANA