Following the recent articles in the media on the Human Papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine and the alleged adverse effects associated with it, the Western Cape Health Department wishes to inform the public and parents adequately, and allay any concerns. The department has a primary responsibility to ensure the health and safety of the public and vaccination is a vital and cost-effective tool with which to build a healthy society. Professor Lynette Denny, head of obstetrics and gynaecology, UCT, Groote Schuur Hospital, said “vaccination has been considered one of the most powerful public health interventions and was responsible for the eradication of diseases which caused massive outbreaks and many deaths”. Most cases of cervical cancer are caused by the HPV and it is estimated that more than 3 000 South African women die from cervical cancer each year. In response the National Department of Health introduced the HPV vaccine in 2014 to prevent this devastating disease as part of the school health programme. The vaccination is administered by injection in two doses, spaced six months apart to all Grade 4 girls from 9 years and older in public and special education schools. The vaccine will ensure that when girls reach adulthood they will be protected from developing cancer caused by HPV strains in the vaccine. Since 2006, the vaccine has been used in about 75 countries globally including Australia, the UK, the US and India, with no major unexpected severe adverse events attributed to the vaccination. As with all vaccinations, known side-effects of the HPV have been reported such as bruising or redness at the vaccination site. In very few cases, possibly due to nervousness and anxiety, some girls have reported vomiting, nausea and fainting, although this appeared to be related to the fear of being injected rather than a response to the vaccine. The recent incident involving a scholar from Kraaifontein cannot be attributed to the HPV vaccine at this stage as there is no evidence to support the claim. The department was made aware of the incident via media and steps were immediately taken to investigate the possible adverse incident. Should the parents give consent, the investigation would include the evaluation of the young girl’s health record, including previous reactions (if any) to routine vaccines. To date, our investigation has found that the physician’s discharge summary contained differential diagnosis and did not highlight the HPV vaccine as the cause of her condition. The department recognises the concern of all parents about the safety of their children, thus parents are encouraged to visit their nearest public health facility if they suspect that their child might be suffering from side effects caused by any vaccine. Professor Gregory Hussey, director of the Vaccines for Africa Initiative at UCT, states “that over 100 million people worldwide have received the HPV vaccine. The safety of this vaccine has been proven in extensive clinical trials. The few globally reported allegations of possible severe side effects have been extensively reviewed by the World Health Organisation and other international agencies and they have not found any safety issue that would alter their recommendations for the use of the vaccine”. Professor Michael Gold, a vaccine safety specialist from Adelaide University in Australia, states: “I can understand why parents of HPV-vaccinated girls are alarmed by these reports of HPV adverse events. But it is very important to understand that what is being reported are suspected and not proven reactions. It is important to focus on the many studies that have been done in different countries that have not shown a causal link between serious reported adverse events and HPV vaccination.” The department wishes to assure parents that it is both safe and responsible to give consent for their daughters to be vaccinated against the HPV virus. ● Dr Beth Engelbrecht is the head of department for Western Cape Government: Health.