Cape Town – Ramadaan is special month of the year for 1.6 billion Muslims throughout the world. It is a time for inner reflection, self-control and devotion to God. Muslims think of it as a kind of tune-up for their spiritual lives. Fasting, the third "pillar" or religious obligation of Islam, has many benefits, the most important being learning self-control. Also because you are not be distracted and pre-occupied with the taste of amazing and Instagrammable foods during the fasting hours, you would become closer to God. Every year Muslims hear the same questions, statements and exclamations about Ramadaan/fasting because somehow many people are still under the impression that it's only about staying without food. Let me start off by saying, it isn't.  It's a detox of the mind and soul so at that by the end of the month, your mind and soul are purified and cleared. At a young age, our parents would say that it is to "Feel how the poor feel", which in a way, encourages sympathy, empathy and compassion.  So allow me to break it down for you. Here are the answers to questions and statements non-Muslims ask and say every time Ramadaan comes around.  "I should try fasting too, maybe I'll get thin." Maybe you will, maybe you won't. Or maybe you will learn that that's not the point. It isn't a weight-loss plan. "It lasts a whole month?" Yes, a lunar month to be precise. Technically speaking, a lunar month is the amount of time it takes for the Moon to pass through each of its phases (new moon, half, full moon), and then return back to its original phase. In other words, Ramadaan starts on the new moon and ends at the sighting of the next new moon. It's approximately 29 days.And no, it isn't that bad. You get used to it after a while. "Can you chew bubblegum since you're not technically eating it?" This is not actually a bad question since the general consensus is that we stay without food. But to answer the question, bubblegum is not permitted. "How can you stay without sex for a whole month?" Abstinence and self-control is possible, you know... Besides, why would you even kiss someone when fasting? The bad breath during Ramadaan is not a joke. A married couple may have sex at night but they would need to take a full bath before starting the fast the next day. "If you swear, do you break your fast?" It wouldn't be the best thing to do during a holy month. Apart from staying without food, one's mind must be clear and bad words/thoughts should be off your tongue and mind. "If you swallow your spit do you break your fast?" It can't be helped, so no it doesn't. "But no one will know if you eat. I won't tell" Perhaps, but my conscience is annoying and it will go all 'Tell-tale heart' on me until I confess, so no, I would prefer waiting until sunset, thank you. "Is it okay if I eat in front of you?" Yes! Please do. I am not suffering and I won't start crying if you eat in front of me. I get that you are trying to be considerate but it is okay...really. "Don't you get hungry?" No, I don't. My stomach is growling due to the ridiculousness of the question. "So you can't even drink water?" Nope. Yes, we will be fine. No, we won't be dehydrated. "What is boeber aand?" 'Boeber aand' is celebrated on the 15th day of Ramadaan. It's where we eat Boeber – a traditional Cape Malay sweet milk drink that is enjoyed by many. "Do you break your fast with dates?" It's somewhat of a tradition to break fast with dates – date and water and then go ahead with the samoosas and pies. It is believed that the Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him) enjoyed the fruit and chose to break fast with this. Therefore besides health benefits, it may also have spiritual benefits. * Cue bad jokes about having a date every day of the fast. * "Oh so you can't go out during the fast?" It's not that it's forbidden per se – it's just not advisable. Cape Argus and IOL