Cape Town - Seven people were killed on the Western Cape's roads over the weekend, according to the provincial government. On Friday, a passenger was killed in a crash in Strand. On Saturday, there were three incidents. On the N2 at Macassar, a pedestrian was killed. Another pedestrian died in a crash on the N2 in the Knysna area. A driver and passanger were killed on the N1 in Paarl. On Sunday, a driver died on Van Riebeek Road, Paarl, and a driver was also killed on the M5, Athlone. "A preliminary report from Western Cape Provincial Traffic Services indicates that seven people died on the province’s roads over the weekend," Provincial Traffic said. "A total of 30 motorists were arrested for allegedly driving under the influence of alcohol. Eight motorists were arrested in the Worcester service area; four in Swellendam; four in George; four in Vredenburg; two in Brackenfell; two in Swellendam; two in Knysna; two in Mossel Bay; one in Vredendal; and one in Caledon. "In addition, traffic officers arrested two people:
* One for false documentation in Caledon; and
* One for false documentation in Mossel Bay. "Breath testing was performed on 1 659 drivers at 23 alcohol blitz roadblocks across the province. The highest breath alcohol reading was recorded in the Brackenfell service area. At 1.23 mg of alcohol/ 1 000 ml of breath, this is over five times the legal limit of 0.24 mg/1 000 ml. "A total of 353 speeding offences were recorded and 210 fines in the total amount of R285 500 were issued for a variety of reasons, ranging from driver offences to vehicle fitness violations. "The highest speeds recorded were: 195km/h in a 120km/h zone in the Beaufort West service area, and 140km/h in a 100km/h zone in the Swellendam service area. "During October, the Department of Transport and Public Works will be focusing on child road safety including road safety talks at schools, seatbelt compliance, learner transport operations, and scholar patrol audits and training. Comprehensive road safety education for children requires the involvement of traffic officers, parents, teachers and other adults in a community. "Together, we can set a good example for children by consistently adhering to the rules of the road," the department said.  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus