 Dear Sir We are a group of concerned staff members, both academics and support staff, who are deeply worried about the current process of militarisation on CPUT campuses. Our intentions are to urge a peaceful, rapid negotiated resolution to the crisis, which we are aware is complex. This letter arose out of a gathering of concerned staff members who met mediators on Friday, October 20. The initiators of the meeting are a group of over 60 staff, who have been communicating and meeting over the past three years about ways to give CPUT staff a voice and we have lent our hand to different mediation efforts since the first #feesmustfall shutdown. We make this urgent call in a climate of fear; many staff have voiced their support but hesitate to engage openly for fear of victimisation by management. In 2014, a Culture and Climate Survey conducted found that CPUT has a high level of toxicity. This climate of fear is a fundamental breach of the ethos of academic freedom; and has shut down or limited spaces for students and staff to enter robust debates on contending and dissenting viewpoints. Our universities cannot operate as sites of innovation and critical thought when dissent is treated as betrayal. Being a university means allowing the closest scrutiny by our peers and the media. For management to attempt to control the narrative by restricting the access of the media goes counter to the essence of our existence as an academic institution. In the short time of the previous acting vice-chancellor, he had an open-door policy. Any staff or student could see him, put their case, challenge him and hold him accountable, which for a short while allowed for more freedom and transparency at the institution. We were never informed of the reasons for his sudden departure. But since then the airing of staff and student views have been severely limited. This letter is an attempt to add our voice to the conversation. We are concerned that the occupation by a violent paramilitary force reinforces the climate of fear at the institution. In light of the continued protests, bombings and militarisation, the status quo has remained the same. As a university we have not moved any closer to a resolution. We have to consider alternate measures for peace and reconciliation. This is not possible in the current hostile climate. We are reminded of the photo classic Memory Against Forgetting by Ranjith Kally, who painstakingly documented the period from 1946 to 2010 in South Africa. The book reflects on the systemic violence that was used to suppress generations and speaks to our current situation at CPUT. We are aware of the complexities of the current situation and the conflicting interests. We know about alleged incidents where students may have gone overboard. These need to be directly addressed with students in the mediation talks. We note the repeated calls by student leaders for  discipline. However, we also note the repeated allegations against Vetus Schola Protection Services in acts of violence. We wish to stress that there is no justification for militarising any university. Challenging militarisation of our campus A climate of terror has been created by Vetus Schola, traumatising staff and students. Staff have been witness to racial and economic profiling of students and the intimidation and harassment of female students by Vetus Schola. Vetus Schola personnel y do not display name tags nor do they identify themselves when asked to do so. This is a violation of regulations in the security sector. The use of Alvis Saracens military vehicles by Vetus Schola, which has surveillance and machine gun capability, is highly disturbing. The university has requested that staff do not interfere with the operations of Vetus Schola and this causes us to question: even when they threaten the bodily autonomy of our students? Already, a young FET student in the faculty of education and social sciences has taken his own life. There has been no visible support from CPUT to the family nor counselling of his fellow students nor commemoration of his young life. In fact, there are staff and students at his campus who are unaware that this tragedy has occurred. There are serious questions over what led to this tragedy. The militarisation of our campuses is a contributing factor to mental trauma for students and staff. On Monday October 16, management allowed the master keys of the residences to be handed to Vetus Schola, who entered them at will, with attack dogs. This was an act of terror against all students, but in particular traumatising to our female students. The raids and invasion of the privacy of students are breaches of the law. It is concerning that it took four days for allegations to emerge of drugs and bombs being found. In the context of largely student leadership of the protests having their rooms searched, this raises a serious question on the nature of these allegations. Are student leaders going to be targeted with spurious claims? This also reinforces concerns raised by the chairperson of the standing committee on public accounts that methods being used on campus hark back to the practices of the apartheid regime in the 1980s. On October 20, one of our students was injured. He had forgotten his student card and was denied entry by Vetus Schola. He attempted to climb over the barbed wire set up by Vetus Schola in an attempt to control access to the university. He got  caught up in the barbed wire, got cut and it took a while for him to be freed. It was concerning that the emphasis of Vetus Schola was to treat him as a criminal, wanting to detain him rather than ensure his wellbeing. Luckily, he was not seriously injured. It was only a few months ago that independent peace monitors alerted CPUT management to the unprovoked violence of Vetus Schola against our students. This led to the immediate cancellation of their contract. However, we have now seen them return and occupy our campuses for over two months. Why has this paramilitary force been allowed to return? We need to know. We also query the exorbitant amount of money being spent to retain this company’s services in light of ongoing insistence by the institution that it does not have the requisite funds to support improvements to student life and resolution of fees-related conflict. Who authorised this wasteful expense and enabled this climate of paranoia? The academic and managerial staff are not the enemy of this movement and have always been welcome to engage with students on terms of mutual respect. It is precisely the lack of respect shown for students’ agency and their experiences that perpetuates the breakdown in relations between members of the university community. We are not the only ones concerned with the militarisation of our campuses. We would like to draw your attention to the online petition with over 1400 signatures calling for the immediate demilitarisation of CPUT. Participatory democracy and our core value of accountability Urgent dialogue is needed between all stakeholders to resolve the impasse at CPUT.  We call for open and transparent communication between all university stakeholders.In summary our urgent request is for: The immediate removal of Vetus Schola and the demilitarisation of our campuses. Immediate entry of independent peace monitors to all campuses, together with independent mediators. Convene an urgent university assembly. Implement restorative justice. We request your considered reply today. * Concerned CPUT staff members ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Newspapers. Cape Argus