On Friday, 28-year-old Elizabeth Davids poured out her heart to readers, saying how she longed to meet her mother, who was separated from her when she was just three weeks old. The community worker says for 21 years her father remained mum, refusing to tell her anything about her mother, Deborah “Debbie” Davids. He would only tell her that he took her away from Debbie because she was an alcoholic. Read: Desperate to find the mother she never met A day before he died, when she turned 21 years old, he finally broke his silence. “His parting gift to me was my mother’s name, where she last lived, and a picture of her,” said Elizabeth, who has a three-year-old son. “I have always looked for my mother, it hurt seeing other mothers and daughters. I have always longed for that bond,” the sobbing woman said, and left her contact number in the paper. Elizabeth says several people called her to encourage her, pray for her and tell her not to lose hope. And then on Saturday night, she finally received the phone call she’d been waiting for all her life. “On Saturday just after 8pm, I received a call and this person said she is Deborah Davids, my mother. I was sceptical and asked what is my father’s full name, nickname and my date of birth, and she answered correctly,” says an overwhelmed Elizabeth. “I cried. I didn’t know what to say. We immediately made arrangements to meet on Sunday. She still resided in Eastridge in Mitchells Plain and her friend saw the article.” Elizabeth’s friend Sarah Kiewiets went with her to experience “the biggest moment of my life”. “I got there and met her. It was unreal. I even found out I have a 23-year-old brother and I met my uncle, my mother’s brother,” says an excited Elizabeth. “Even though I have eight other siblings (from my father’s side), they are scattered all over, and now I no longer feel alone. I have a family, people who’ve got my back. She adds: “I really would like to thank Aunty Sarah for always being there for me, aunty Charmaine for getting hold of the Daily Voice and to the Daily Voice staff itself. Without the article, I could not have found my mother.” The best part? “I will be moving in with my mother later this month,” Elizabeth says with tears in her eyes. Deborah, now 53, was too emotional to speak, and would only say: “I am just glad I met my daughter, that’s all I can say. Now we can move forward.” Aunty Sarah says she is grateful that Elizabeth’s dream has come true. “I am so happy for her. She really deserves this. Now she has the opportunity to fulfil her dream to have a relationship with her mother. I just want to say a huge thanks to the Daily Voice,” Sarah said. Daily Voice