I am trying to use Bafana Bafana’s changed positive mindset and resurgent form to come to an important issue that is also affecting us all. I  will always remember what bemused world-class goalkeeper Keylor Navas, the Costa Rica and Real Madrid player whose team incidentally reached the quarter-finals  of the 2014 World Cup, had to say after we beat them in our last friendly match. In this match he was in the firing line of a rampant Bafana team. He said after the match: “Looking at how they competed here I am still surprised that South Africa is not dominating Africa and even most countries in the worldThey are electric fast their football is refreshing and exciting to see It’s quite different from the European, South and Central American style.” That says a lot about us as a nation and how much was and can be achieved in a short period of time. Unfortunately, since then our boys have gone flat. I was pleased  when Stuart Baxter, an astute and excellent coach, brought sports psychologist Martin Scheepers on board. This change of mindset   brought about the changed form and positive attitude of the players. We as a nation, and the older generation - the corporates, business people and parents who have experienced apartheid - also need to show more positivity to inspire the born-frees. They will make up a third of voters for 2019. I am confident that we have everything in place and we have the peace-loving people to make South Africa great again. I last wrote  and appealed to big corporates and others to invest in our people and create jobs etc. I was pleased to the read in the Argus the following day about one of our big retail giant’s new initiatives and its enterprising collaboration with spaza shops in the townships. More big corporates need to follow their example. I can’t  think of a better way of trying to win over the hearts and minds of the “white 
monopoly capital” sympathisers. * Mo Noor Joseph is a Cape Argus reader from Crawford ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus