Cape Town - Support from community members and authorities has been pouring in for a Philippi East, Cape Town, family who lost six members in a devastating shack fire. Community members of Phola Park informal settlement were woken by screams on Monday night as Nokhaya Kili, 51, her two children Mihle, 18, and Xolani Kili, 14, and three grandchildren, Kuhle Msuthu, 1, Simamkele Msuthu, 5, and Benathi Kili, 8, were trapped inside a burning shack. The family and residents suspected the fire was started by a candle that fell over. Community leader Thembisile Mbenene said they have been doing their best to assist the family as they had only one person who worked and depended on child grants. “Nokhaya’s husband, Patric Kili, a pensioner, was told of the deaths while in Eastern Cape and the community assisted in bringing him here as the family could not afford to. They have been receiving food from people. People can still assist the family with anything,” said Mbenene. Among those who visited the family was Human Settlements MEC Bonginkosi Madikizela, who offered to his support. Spokesperson for Madikizela, Ntomboxolo Makoba-Somdaka, said they would assist the family by paying for DNA tests to identify the bodies. “We wanted to prioritise, that is why we will be paying for DNA. Our task team will constantly be in touch with community leaders to see what else the family needs help with. What has happened here is indeed tragic. Our heartfelt condolences to the family.” The City’s Disaster Risk Management department spokesperson, Charlotte Powell, said Disaster Management officials had been activated, including trauma counselling. “The City of Cape Town’s Disaster Risk Management Centre (DRMC) is co-ordinating efforts to assist with the burial costs of the victims of the Phola Park fire in Philippi this week. AVBOB has donated its services to assist with the burials. The DRMC, along with the South African Red Cross Society, is arranging humanitarian relief for the affected persons, including food, clothing and vanity packs. The Chaplain’s Alert Western Cape has provided trauma counselling to the victims’ relatives,” said Powell. There will be a memorial service for the victims on Friday.  okuhle.hlati@inl.co.za  Cape Argus