Cape Town - Cape ANC leader Xolani Sotashe visited mayor Patricia de Lille’s home in Pinelands where they demanded that she pay back the more than R400 000 security upgrades to her home. The security upgrades to De Lille's house were paid for by the city, but De Lille paid for other renovations herself. City of Cape Town Council speaker Dirk Smit said the reckless behaviour of the ANC has placed the mayor’s safety in jeopardy. “As a result of the reckless actions by the members of the ANC and others today who revealed confidential information about the Executive Mayor’s private residence, the safety at the mayor’s house has been jeopardised with information and videos of her home being distributed to the public via various media channels,” Smit said. Smit said De Lille, like any office-bearer such as an MEC, is entitled to security upgrades at her house which she has lived in for more than two decades. “With the members of the opposition taking the media to the mayor’s house and this being broadcast all over social media, everyone will see that the Mayor lives in an ordinary, modest home which she paid for herself. This is in spite of the fact that the Mayor is entitled to an official residence paid for by Council, which she has repeatedly refused,” he said. The city’s VIP officers would now have to monitor the mayor’s house on a daily basis. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “I will be reporting this to the SAPS who will have to reassess the Mayor’s house and Council will have to redo the safety measures because these measures have been compromised with the details being made public,” he said. Sotashe said De Lille must pay back the money. "She is telling lies to the people of Cape Town. This crisis between her and JP Smith is not good for this City. She needs to come out and tell the truth."  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus