Three cases are currently before the  courts in which children between 17 months and 3 years were killed following a history of sexual and physical abuse, and neglect. Shaheema McLeod, director at the Saartjie Baartman Centre for Women and Children, said it would be good if what the Department of Social Services was saying about asking parents who need help to come forward was true. “The waiting list for intervention is so long that you can wait two to six months for an investigation to conclude.The concern is the wait can be long and something tragic can happen in the meantime,” she said. Jeremiah Ruiters, 17 months old, died as a result of a blunt force trauma to his spine, a cracked skull, broken ribs and bite marks all over his body, including his face and genitals. His mother, Abigail Ruiters, was charged with her son’s murder in June while her boyfriend, Ameerudien Peters - who is not the child’s biological father - was accused of the toddler’s rape and murder. 18-month-old Asheeqah Scott also died of blunt force trauma to the head after her mother’s boyfriend, Pieter van Tonder, beat her.  She had burns and contusions all over her body. A pathologist testified that in the 700 cases she had worked on, this was the worst case of neglect she had seen. The child’s liver was similar to that of an adult alcoholic. Three-year-old Lache Stols was beaten to death with a belt by her father’s girlfriend, Anthea Kleynhans. The child had damaged ribs and cigarette burns on her body. In all of the above cases someone had attempted to notify authorities, but nothing was done. The victims also visited health facilities with recurring injuries. “Social workers have hundreds of cases, but no proper support. They need to do site visit  interviews. That’s a long tedious process. There are also social challenges that are prevalent in almost every case of drug, alcohol and unemployment,” said McLeod. UCT Professor Catherine Ward said parents from poor communities had a much tougher task of raising children due to the environment and few resources. “We need proper resourcing for social work offices: they need computers linked to a national database so that information can be shared easily, and tracked through the system. Offices also need private rooms for interviewing children, and enough cars to allow social workers to travel. “Much greater effort needs to be made by the government to bring the various sectors together to support children better,” said Ward. Esther Lewis, spokesperson for the provincial Department of Social Develpement, said the department was working with other agencies on the Child Death Review Panel to dissect each unnatural child death. “The department has seen two cases this year where the abuse was reported and the social workers failed to act adequately or timeously. “These cases are taken very seriously by the department and full investigations are under way. Serious consequences are likely to ensue for those involved,” she said. She conceded that due to the severity of cases, many social workers were overburdened. The provincial ratio for cases is 1 social worker to 4 600 cases. Provincial health spokesperson Marika Champion said the department was trained to identify signs of abuse or neglect and ask the required questions in order to alert the Department of Social Development for further intervention.  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus