Cape Town - Western Cape premier Helen Zille said she imagined the Western Cape as the green hub of Africa, and insisted the government would have to lead by example. Zille said the provincial government planned to save R500 000 a year on their electricity costs, after installing solar photovoltaic panels on the rooftops of four government buildings. “Now when everyone is focusing on the drought and the need for water we forget that just three years ago we were having load shedding, which was as much of a threat to our economy and future, in many ways, as the water crisis,” Zille said. She said people have to use natural resources sparingly and find alternatives. “In both cases all of our citizens need to understand that resources have their limits and they need to be used sparingly. The notion that we can use endless amounts of resources has to end and people have to be careful how they use them. “We in government have to lead by example. Iit’s a very tough example and we are trying to lead by example,” she said. Zille said they had other water saving measures in the pipeline like having flow restrictors inserted on hand-wash basins and the province was also tapping into boreholes at health and education facilities. "Given the current drought disaster and previous experience with electricity load shedding in 2014/15, it is important for the government, business and the whole of society to change their relationship with our precious, shared resources. We are adopting a more sustainable approach and we encourage households and businesses to do the same,” she said. The ANC has called on Zille and mayor Patricia de Lille to step down over the water crisis. “Both Zille and De Lille were warned long ago that there is a looming problem. They opted to reject these warnings,” the ANC said. ANC leader in the province, Khaya Magaxa said the point of no return had been reached. “It is time for action and people need to come together to find and implement real solutions. There are just two short term options left: To reclaim and reuse/recycle partially treated water as well as the harnessing of alternative sources including run-off storm water, underground channels, springs, the bigger aquifer and desalination.”  yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus