The school has no library, science lab or sports field. In June 2016, Coega Development Corporation, a school infrastructure implementing agent, went to the school to make assessments for its rebuilding. Construction was meant to begin in the same year. But to date, Vukile Tshwete Secondary’s appearance has been altered only by a new fence. Zanokhanyo Junior Secondary School in Butterworth has been in need of new classrooms since it suffered storm damage in 2014. The school does not possess the plans for new classrooms, it has only had sight of them via Coega. Equal Education’s Eastern Cape office has since 2014 visited numerous schools in which Coega, as the designated implementing agent, has failed to fulfil its obligations timeously. On 18 October, Equalisers (pupil members of EE) and EE staff picketed outside the Port Elizabeth and East London offices of Coega. Coega is one of eight implementing agents (IAs) that Eastern Cape Education HOD Themba Kojana has made responsible for building schools and ensuring that they are safe and conducive environments for teaching and learning. Coega is a state-owned entity entrusted with public money to give both managerial and project implementation support to the department to provide quality school infrastructure. In 2016, EE visited 60 schools across seven districts in the Eastern Cape, investigating the government’s compliance with the Regulations Relating to Minimum Uniform Norms and Standards for School Infrastructure -  it’s a legally binding commitment to fix all schools. We tried to ascertain the progress of the Department of Basic Education (DBE) and Eastern Cape Education Department in addressing school infrastructure backlogs. The Norms and Standards state that all public schools must have access to running water, electricity, and decent sanitation, and must definitely not be made of inappropriate materials such as mud, wood, zinc or asbestos. Despite the fact that it is nearing a year since the first deadline, schools in the Eastern Cape remain in crisis conditions. Of the 60 schools that EE visited, 17 were entirely made of of inappropriate material with no access to water, electricity or sanitation. Of these 17 schools, 41% do not appear on any list for infrastructure upgrades, and 46 of 60 schools had at least one inappropriate structure. While every school had access to some form of water supply, 42 schools had access to water through rainwater harvesting alone. Toilets were routinely filthy.  Frequently entire schools depended on two or three pit latrines. At one school, the ratio of pupils to working toilets was 294:1. Of the 56 schools that had a grid connection, 14% did not have regular access to electricity. More than a third of schools with access to electricity did not have electricity throughout the school, with 11 schools (20% of those schools with access to grid electricity) only having power in the administration block and not in any classrooms. The reasons for this are  government’s poor performance regarding the school infrastructure law, its dependence on unreliable data, its growing under-utilisation of the available funding, the slow and irregular performance of implementing agents, and poor planning and progress reporting. State-owned enterprises in South Africa play a significant role in the economy and the delivering of services to all citizens. Although tasked to help improve economic growth, this has not occurred. Implementing agents (IAs), whether state-owned like Coega and the Independent Development Trust (IDT) or government departments such as the Department of Public Works, are entrusted with public money to give both managerial and project implementation support to provide quality school infrastructure. IAs directly manage school projects allocated to them by the Head of Department. The failure of IAs starts with them using their own supply chain and procurement processes. The procurement process deals with evaluating contractors and tender offers, as well as the administering of contracts. One way the Eastern Cape monitors this process is by delegating officials to serve on IAs' procurement committees. These committees include the following: Bid Evaluation Committee which decides who is awarded the tender and the Bid Adjudication Committee which makes the final decision by evaluating the Bid Evaluation Committee’s decision. Unfortunately, it is not possible for civil society to monitor whether the department sits on these committees. From our research with IAs and the Eastern Cape department, it is evident that they do not. Poor planning, inaccurate data, and the lack of capacity from both the national (DBE) and provincial education departments (PEDs) have become the plague of provinces failing to spend money allocated to school infrastructure effectively. According to a 2017 DBE presentation to Parliament, 252 of 574 posts linked to infrastructure delivery were vacant in PEDs entrusted with the responsibility of infrastructure budgets. This finding is a further indication of the lack of capacity that exists within government departments to deliver. The Eastern Cape is one of the provinces which has had difficulty in filling vacant posts. After 1994, the ANC government inherited an education system with stark differences between well-resourced (urban provinces) and poorly-resourced (rural provinces) schools, deliberately used as a tool by the apartheid government to separate white and black people. Since its establishment in 1994, organisational incompetence and slow progression towards transforming the department’s pre-existing apartheid residue into the new democracy, continues to delay the fixing of schools in the province. To hold IAs accountable, there needs to be a process of monitoring which projects have been allocated to them by the DBE and PEDs, for what years, and for how much money. When provided with this information, civil society and school communities would be able to monitor the performance of IAs from year to year. Delayed projects and money wasted by IAs would consequently become easier to track. * Mila Kakaza is Equal Education's Spokesperson.