Earlier this year parents were urged to vaccinate their children against measles, as at least 29 cases were reported. Measles, a highly infectious and contagious virus, can be prevented through vaccinations. Last year, Stats SA revealed that only 61% of 2-year-olds had received all their basic vaccinations, while only 53% received all their age appropriate vaccinations. Mothers like Talia Heuvel have either gone without the vaccine or paid to get the private dosage. “I have already started saving for the one year (measles) vaccine; he is 9months only now. It’s a lot of money to be dishing out for a service that was originally promised to be free. I had to buy my son’s nine months vaccine and it cost me R800; the medical aid never paid.” Matapelo Kombora said she was growing impatient waiting for state stock and took her daughter to get private vaccinations as she was due to start  crèche. “I kept wondering how this would affect mothers who have challenges with getting a day off from work and who also have no one else to take the baby for the vaccine. It also now seems that getting vaccine for your baby is becoming more of a privileged thing because parents who cannot afford it privately will have to wait till Jesus comes or till their baby gets sick.” Kombora said there was a  “lack of urgency” from the government to address the matter. “ I stopped going to the local clinic for my baby’s vaccination at 6 months because every time I went there I would have to wake up at 4am and leave the house at 6am only to be told at 9am that the vaccines are not available and our baby would just be weighed. All the costs to travel and time off from work just for the baby to be weighed were too much.” Qwathikazi Mhlaba skipped the vaccine as she couldn’t get it and now lives in fear that her child will get the disease. “I am scared he might get it, but luckily he is not at crèche at the moment; he stays with a day mother. If he was at crèche that would have been a big issue.” She said that in her hunt for a vaccine the price range for the private vaccination ranged between R600 and R800. “That money isn’t always readily available and now you just have to cross your fingers that they have it. I am not sure how people without medical aid do it.” Department of Health spokesperson Mark van der Heever said they were experiencing a shortage with the tetanus and diphtheria vaccine and the measles vaccine “perhaps might temporarily be of low supply at one facility and not the other”. “In these instances the vaccines are moved between facilities to ensure children who require it can receive it. We encourage parents to remain in contact with the facility where they take their child for immunisation to ensure they are kept informed.”He said the diphtheria and tetanus shortage was national. “Our medical depot is expecting stock next week and we kindly request parents to check with their nearest facility whether the expected stock has arrived.” @yo_lisa92  yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus