Cape Town - The City of Cape Town and the Western Cape government have signed a deal which is hoped would speed up the delivery of housing opportunities. The memorandum of agreement signed on Monday sees the City get assignment functions regarding human settlements. It will also be held directly accountable for the management of funds, with the provincial government retaining an oversight role. Mayor Patricia de Lille and Western Cape Human Settlements MEC Bonginkosi Madikizela signed the agreement on Monday. The City hopes this will lead to more effective planning and the "establishment of a more responsive pipeline of projects". "This development is in line with the objectives of the City’s Organisational Development and Transformation Plan (ODTP) to enhance service delivery and become more a proactive and customer-centric administration," the City said in a statement. "The signing of the MOA between the Mayor and the MEC today marks a significant step for the future management of housing delivery in the City of Cape Town." Madikizela said: "This is a journey we started some time ago. I am hoping that finally we will be able to assign the City the accreditation to ensure the City has full powers to administer National and Provincial Housing functions and programs in terms of Section 126 of the Constitution and Section 10 of the Municipal Systems Act. "This MOA is providing a roadmap and clear guidelines as to what needs to be done between now and 30 June 2018. The intention is that come 1 July, the City is given full assignment to administer all the housing functions. The commitment we must now make is to look at the gaps that exist and work together to deal with the problems so that by June next year, we are on track.
 
"Clauses 5 and 6 of this agreement clearly stipulate roles and responsibilities of my department and the City of Cape Town during this process. Our teams are working towards ensuring that these time frames are met," he said.
 
De Lille said: "We still need to continue to do joint planning. In the City administration, we have put the urban planning, transport and human settlement departments together so that we can address apartheid spatial planning and we need the help of Province to bridge those gaps. "To deal with the backlog of housing, we need to work with all three spheres of government," she said. The MOA binds the parties to the process and timeframes for full assignment to the City to come into effect by 1 July 2018, when it is due to be gazetted by Western Cape premier Helen Zille. 
 
"While it will still take time to build houses to address the historic backlog of people on the City’s housing database, this development will go a long way to help us implement housing projects faster by shifting the focus to medium- and high-density housing projects, informal settlement upgrading, and the backyarders programme," the City said. "Today, the Power of Attorney was also issued by the City to the Western Cape Human Settlements Department for the Western Cape Government to commence with the land development applications to enable development on City-owned land related to the southern corridor informal settlements along the N2 highway.
 
"At the same time, the Western Government and the City are working on a joint business plan for these areas in order to create sustainable transit-oriented development and integrated communities," it said in a statement.  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus