One chap mentioned he had been to the local shopping centre that afternoon to fill his 10l bottles with drinking water for the next few days. He was immediately pounced upon (verbally) and told scornfully: “You are not actually saving any water that way." "They just use municipal water which they pump through a filter. You might as well just use what comes out of your taps, for all the good it will do for Cape Town’s water supply.” Technically, I suppose that’s true, but I think there is definitely some merit in buying your drinking water by the litre. What this city needs is a change of attitude towards water. For too long we (like city people all over the world) have taken our water supply for granted. You want a glass of water or a bath or kettle of water for your tea, you open the nearest tap and the stuff comes gushing out. You hardly even think about it. But when you load a few big plastic bottles into your boot, drive a couple of kilometres to the shopping mall, queue for them to be filled and then pay for it (even if it’s just a rand a litre) and lug them back to the car you are reminded that it’s precious stuff and worth the effort to buy it, store it and ration it. You store it in a special place in your kitchen and regard it with respect, just as Winnie the Pooh regards his precious row of honey jars. You could say the city would achieve the same result simply by charging a huge sum for every litre of water, but it wouldn’t be quite the same. We use our water for washing dishes, flushing toilets, doing our laundry and other mundane, necessary things. Buying a few litres of water specially for drinking is a good reminder that we depend on it for our existence. We could survive for quite a while without petrol or toilet paper or shampoo or baked beans or even newspapers, but if our water supply dries up, we die. We should not lose sight of that. The time may well arrive when we fit expensive locks and burglar alarms to our Jo-Jo tanks and take out insurance policies on their contents. There is nothing more precious we own. Last Laugh As elderly couple are fast asleep when the wife wakes up shivering and shakes her husband awake. “ Sam” she says, “close the window. It’s freezing outside”. He ignores her and continues snoring. So she shakes him again. “Sam, shut the window. It’s freezing outside” After several more tries she eventually wakes him and he gets up muttering and closes the window. As he crawls back into bed he grumbles: “Is it any warmer outside now?” * "Tavern of the Seas" is a daily column written in the Cape Argus by David Biggs. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Cape Argus