Cape Town - The ever changing face of St George’s Mall is a testament to how quickly cafés and eateries come and go in the city centre. This year marks 25 years since St George’s Mall was pedestrianised from Wale Street to Riebeeck Street, creating a direct walk way through the city centre. For those who work in the city centre and walk down the historic mall, you’d hardly notice how quickly shops, restaurants and coffee bars pop up along the strip. But if you haven’t been to St George’s Mall in the past few months, or even years then you’d be unaware that there are some great eateries and coffee shops for you to stop at along the way. Often coming to the city centre can be quite a headache, and finding parking being the biggest hurdle. So when you are on foot and need to find a quiet spot to catch your breath or even just grab a quick snack, St George’s Mall has the answer. Stretching from Wale to Riebeeck Street and intersected by Church, Longmarket, Shortmarket, Hout, Castle, Strand and Waterkant streets it is easy to get lost in the pedestrian walkway. There are a few cafés that have stood the test of time. Mariams Kitchen (101 St George’s Mall) is a Cape Town institution and it’s still tucked away snugly between the Holiday Inn Express and Wimpy, so if you have a taste for authentic Cape Malay food (and snacks like samoosas) then you should definitely pop in there. And there are fast food options as well, like KFC and Wimpy if that’s really what you want to eat. But recently there have been quite a few additions popping up along St George’s Mall that you might not have known about since your last stroll through the city centre. Earth Fair Market A WEEKLY market held every Thursday with stalls offering a variety of food and snacks from traditional South African food to European snacks (Greek, Italian etc). Address: Cnr Church Street and St George’s Mall. Trading hours: Thursdays from 12pm to 3pm. Must have: The Gourmet Pantry pie or quiche. A great snack that is quality street food. Prices: There are various stalls, R100 gets you a meal and something to drink. Xpresso A grab-and-go coffee and sweet treats café. Everything on the menu costs R10. There are sandwiches, pastries, sweet treats and coffees and teas. A great option for those on a tight budget. Address: Cnr Shortmarket Street and St George’s Mall. Opening and closing time: Mon-Fri 7am-6pm, Saturday 7am-4pm, Sunday 8am-1pm. Must have: The custard Danish. The pastries are great on-the-go snacks. It’s baked fresh daily.  Prices: R10 per item. Motherland Coffee A coffee shop and eatery that’s got a great offering of African coffees, comfortable work spaces and lounges. Address: Cnr Wale Street and St George’s Mall. Opening and closing time: Mon-Fri 6:45am-6pm, Saturday 8am-4pm, Sunday 9am-3pm. Must have: The hazelnut latte. Motherland has premium coffee from many African countries. There are breakfast items, snacks, salads and wraps on the menu.  Prices: R25 gets you a small cup of coffee. Salads, wraps and panini start from R55. Seattle Coffee Company At the entrance to the Food Lover’s Market, this newly opened franchise has premium hot and cold beverages, great seating and comfortable couches for long lunches and meetings. Address: 122 St George’s Mall. Trading hours: Mon-Fri 7am-6pm. Saturdays 9am-3pm. Sundays closed. Must have: The iced coffee alternatives. There are also great frozen beverages flavoured from chocolate to vanilla Prices: A bit expensive, depending on the coffee you order, but R30 gets you a premium quality drink, hot or cold. Gobble To Go A take-away eatery that has a distinctive Cape Malay and Indian flavour. Food is great value for money. Address: 100 St George’s Mall Trading hours: Mon-Fri 8am-5pm and Sat 8am-5pm. Must have: The Real Durban Curry. All the food is home-style Cape Malay and Indian dishes with firm favourites, including Gatsbys, chip rolls, hake and chips and bunny chow. Prices: Good value for money and there are daily specials. Cool Banana’s A kiosk painted in distinctive black and yellow that offers tasty and healthy snacks, as well as a nice cup of coffee. Address: Cnr Strand Street and St George’s Mall. Trading Hours: Mon-Fri 7am-4:30pm, Saturdays 8am-1.30pm, Sundays closed. Must have: The smoothies and the raw juice. Fresh fruit is top of the ingredients list so you will not be disappointed. The fruit and veggies used are seasonal. Prices: Prices are reasonable and there are great specials, including a smoothie and a confectionery for R10. VARIETY: The Earth Fair Market takes place in St George’s Mall every Thursday.Picture: Ayanda Ndamane/ANA  nathan.adams@inl.co.za  Cape Argus