The allowed revenue resulted in an average increase of 2.2% due to base adjustments made in preceding years following approved RCA balances for Eskom (12.69% for 2015/16 for MYPD2 and 9.4% for 2016/17 for first year of MYPD3). The 2.2% average increase resulted in consumers receiving an effective decrease in electricity prices, in a situation where costs to produce electricity are increasing. Eskom, in this revenue application for the 2018/19 year has applied the Nersa MYPD methodology of 2016, with a phasing-in of return on assets being applied. The allowed revenue and price adjustments decisions will be applicable from April 1, 2018. It is also important to note that this revenue application does not include any RCA applications for the MYPD 3 period. Eskom understands that Nersa will process RCAs for years 2, 3 and 4 of the MYPD 3 period at a later stage. The adjustments will be applicable from April 1, 2019 onwards in a phased manner. To make an informed decision on the application, it is important to understand the process used by Eskom to forecast the sales and the key assumptions made. The sales volume assumption is one of the key assumptions that Nersa makes when making its allowed revenue decision in accordance with the Multi-Year Price Determination (MYPD) methodology. How does Eskom make sales volume projections? Eskom undertakes a thorough process in determining what its sales forecast in a revenue application would be. As with any economic forecasting, there are many variables that would need to be considered. Eskom compiles a detailed monthly forecast covering a period of six years and then annual forecasts considering and understanding trends per sector in the economy. Specific engagements are held with each of the top customer segments (those consuming greater than 100 GWh per annum are individually analysed) considering customer insights, market conditions, usage patterns and their long-term plans. A bottom-up approach (regional inputs) is used to determine the forecast for the rest of the customers (including municipalities) that make up 80% of the sales per category and these are forecast on an individual bases. A rigorous and robust session is conducted with all Eskom regions and key industrial customers to ensure consistency and validity of assumptions. All scrutinised regional and top customers’ sales forecast are consolidated to form the South African local sales forecast. Long-term economic forecast trends and commodity prices are sourced and used in the compilation of the forecast. Any abnormalities are removed from the historic data before statistical trend analysis and statistical forecasts are undertaken. This forecast is updated on a quarterly basis. In the present economic climate, it is very difficult to keep abreast of the changes in economic activity that impacts on the sales forecasts. Key assumptions made The sales forecast is based on various assumptions reflecting the different types of customers’ electricity needs and influences on diverse customers’ consumption profiles. There are some similar assumptions used for all customers but with varying impacts. Key assumptions include Gross domestic product (GDP) growth, commodity market performance and prices, demand response savings, weather conditions, customer projects, power purchase agreements (PPAs) and industrial action.   Historic trend is showing a decline in consumption with no real upswing yet. Divergent sales between MYPD 3 decision (2017/18) and 2018/19 assumption. In its March 2013 MYPD 3 decision, Nersa had assumed that by the 2017/18 financial year Eskom’s sales volume for standard tariff customers would be approximately 223TWh. However the projection of the Eskom actual sales for 2017/18 at the time of the submission is 190TWh. This trend has been evident from the time that Nersa made the MYPD 3 decision. The sales are declining due to a combination of reasons that includes:   In addition there is currently low investor confidence in South Africa due to political instability, policy uncertainty, lack of government support (incentives), ease of doing business and consequential management of risk. Rebasing of sales for 2018/19 This one-year revenue application for the 2018/19 financial year marks the end of the MYPD3 cycle with the associated optimistic sales volume decision and the start of a new period that accounts for the change to a more realistic electricity sales volume. This adjustment will allow Eskom to recover the allowed revenue that Nersa determines related to efficient costs and a fair return. Nersa’s annual price adjustments during the MYPD 3 period did not allow for the widening gap between what Nersa assumed were sales volume in its decision and what the realistic sales volume turned out to be - to be addressed. Even if the allowed revenue was not increased for the 2018/19 year, the recovery through lower sales volume will result in a price increase. The net impact of this sales volume rebasing is a 9.4% price increase being required after accounting for variable primary energy savings (refer to the "Note" lower later on in this document) on the lower volumes. Eskom is experiencing low electricity sales growth in line with the sluggish international and local economic growth and low commodity price projections. In order to remedy the situation, Eskom has embarked on a Growth and Sustainability Strategy with the objective of growing additional sales to benefit new generation assets, sustaining current sales and pursuing sales growth opportunities to increase electricity sales over time. The implementation of multiple demand stimulation initiatives will ensure the retention of Eskom’s large industrial and mining customers and create new opportunities for growth in the medium to longer terms. The Local Demand Stimulation Programme with a framework to stimulate local demand has  four key elements geared to supporting existing customers to expediting projects in construction. It focuses on sales retention for companies in distress (a short-term incentive pricing framework is being finalised by the Department of Energy); to maintain and grow sales where plants are not run to full capacity; to engage with customers to take early supply for projects under construction, to grow the project funnel of potential projects; attract new investments in close liaison with government; to develop short-term industry-specific products that will increase sales and to increase revenue from unregulated services. This programme is closely managed by Eskom’s top management as one of the strategies to improve the financial sustainability of Eskom. The success of the Growth and Sustainability Strategy is dependent on establishing a country platform together with all key role players to ensure an integrated and focused SA Incorporated approach to encourage existing and new customers to invest in the country and maximise the growth potential of South Africa. * Ayanda Noah is the Group Executive, Customer Services, Eskom.