SRC chairperson Ayakha Magxotwa questioned why no arrests were made if there was evidence. “We did not witness anyone being arrested or heard actions are being taken, yet unlawful items that could harm other students and destroy infrastructure were found. I don’t understand where would students get stun grenades and rubber bullets? “As students we want peace and things to go back to normal, management cannot say things are back to normal when students and staff are walking on eggshells in campuses and their own residences,” Magxotwa said. Magxotwa said there was an online petition, which had already gathered over 1 400 signatures. “Lecturers are stressing and frustrated, as they are receiving e-mails from depressed students, who have to work hard and catch up. A group of staff members drafted an open letter to the acting vice-chancellor Chris Nhlapo, in order to raise concerns over the current crisis. “The idea was to propose a way forward that is free of militarisation of our campuses. Nhlapo has refused a student assembly, so we are calling for an end to financial exclusion.” Two weeks ago, activities at the university’s campuses were suspended indefinitely after more than a month of disruptive student protests, arson attacks and clashes with police and security guards. According to Nhlapo, the institution was left with no choice but to source the services of private security company Vetus Schola in an attempt to restore stability to campuses. “Part of the security plan, aimed at making campuses safe, includes residence room searches being carried out. “Random searches have proven to be the nexus of illicit activities and proved that illegal and dangerous items were being harboured in rooms. Illicit items such as used stun grenades, rubber bullets,  petrol bombs, and illegal drugs were found inside the residences.” He said while searches were made there were rooms that were occupied by people who were not CPUT students, hence management decided that no outside visitors are allowed in residences. Resident students are not allowed in residences which they are not assigned to after 10pm and students who allow their rooms to be used for illicit activities will be held liable. Stoning and burning of cars, especially at Bellville campus, have forced management to identify a secure area for parking, which is being guarded.  okuhle.hlati@inl.co.za  Cape Argus