Cape Town - The University of Cape Town has not yet decided whether or not to hike fees for 2018. This comes in response to the claims by the university's Student Representative Council (SRC) that the institution would be hiking fees by between 8 and 10%. A mass meeting was held at UCT's Jameson Hall on Tuesday where the SRC read out a list of demands addressed to the university. Thereafter students dispersed and began disrupting classes on Upper and Middle Campus. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. It formed part of the #UCTShutdown promised by student protesters earlier this week. Also read: Fears of full-scale student flare-up The list of demands read out at the mass meeting included: a 0% fee increment at the university, the immediate release of the Fees Commission report and an emergency institutional commission of inquiry into all the deaths of students over the past two to five years, particularly in relation to cases of suicide. Also read: Student suicides show need for better support structures The university itself echoed the students' demand for the release of the report by President Jacob Zuma. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. "The University of Cape Town states unequivocally that there has been no decision taken on the 2018 tuition and residence fees," UCT said in a statement. "UCT has made an appeal to the Presidency for the release of the Fees Commission report in order to determine what commitment the government would make towards higher education funding. "The university has had many discussions with various stakeholders, including student representatives and staff. However, any figures mentioned during such discussions should not be seen as UCT’s proposed fee increase for 2018.” UCT spokesperson Elijah Moholola said  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus