Religious leaders in Hanover Park mobilised residents to “take back their streets” at a multifaith community safety initiative which started on Friday with a vigil and ended on Sunday. “Gang violence is crippling our communities and we cannot just sit and watch as innocent lives are taken. Our children deserve to play safely in the streets and parks. We had activities to highlight the importance of community involvement in the fight against drugs and gangsterism. “In the past two months we had 35 killings and are happy the project was successful,” said Moekmina Sampson of Hanover Park Society. Mulana Tahaa Rodrigues, programme co-ordinator and a member of the Muslim Judicial Council (MJC), said crime, especially gangsterism, affected everyone and was it was time to work together to take ownership of their streets and community. “We were concerned about the state of Phillans Park, also known as the Jungle Park, which was earmarked for an upgrade by the City of Cape Town last year. Jungle Park was declared a red zone because gangsters are always shooting across the park. “In August construction workers tasked to build a state-of-the-art recreational park for our children downed tools and never returned because their lives were in danger,” Rodrigues said. He questioned the priorities of government, which he claims invests in “their areas” for lavish parks. Meanwhile, police spokesperson André Traut confirmed that a 24-year-old man was shot and killed on Saturday night in Ryburg Road. Traut said the motive was unknown and no arrest had been made yet. Sampson said they heard gunshots while they held the meeting, but police and law enforcement were present and visible throughout the weekend. There has been a spike in gang violence in recent months, with the latest  crime statistics released by Police Minister Fikile Mbalula showing that the highest numbers of murders have been recorded in the Western Cape. On Tuesday, Parliament will debate the scourge of crime and murder in South Africa. In a statement, Zakhele Mbhele, DA spokeperson on police, said: “The time has come for minister Fikile Mbalula to urgently reinstate the specialised units, which were successful at targeting specific crimes; rural safety units, anti-drug and gang units. These were disabled with no effective alternative to replace them.” @okuhle_hlati  okuhle.hlati@inl.co.za  Cape Argus 