Trade union Nehawu, SRCs and university management have asked for the release of the report, but there has been no answer from the president's office. Universities have begun announcing fee increases for next year. An 8% fee increase at the University of the Free State has seen protests erupt. Stellenbosch University has also tabled a proposed fee increase which has outraged students. The SRC at the university has rejected the proposed 8% increase in university tuition. “We as the SRC reject the proposed fee increase. We believe that the proposed fee increase will put higher education further beyond the reach of the materially poor but academically deserving students,” said SRC spokesperson Leighton September. September said the SRC was currently in talks with the university. September also said the SRC raised questions regarding what benefits would come out of the increase in fees. “This added increment further indebts middle-class students who can barely afford the cost of studying,” September said. “The objective of the 8% fee increase is to ensure the institution's long-term financial sustainability, world-class academic qualifications and research output, and to ensure a consistent and significant positive impact on society,” said university spokesperson Martin Viljoen. According to Viljoen, the proposed increase for student accommodation for next year is 9.2%, which includes R4.2million for additional security patrols around the university. Meal quotas in residences are set to increase by 8%. “Amid the fee increases, SU remains committed to support financially needy, academically deserving students. Prof Wim de Villiers, rector and vice-chancellor, has repeatedly acknowledged the inequalities of South African society,” said Viljoen. Other universities, however, have not decided to increase their fees. The embattled Cape Peninsula University of Technology Central SRC said the issue of fees remains a touchy subject. “We do not support a fee increase. We are expecting the fees commission to come and announce free education for the poor and middle-class for 2018. “This is a very sensitive matter, we have even resolved that we will not go into any discussions of fee increments with management. This is a national issue and we share the same sentiments with other SRCs,” said SRC secretary-general Mbaliyezwe Madikizela. CPUT spokesperson Lauren Kansley said “a decision on a fee increase has not been made by CPUT.” The University of Cape Town’s vice-chancellor, Dr Max Price, expressed concern that the president had not yet released the Fees Commission report.  marvin.charles@inl.co.za 