The residents were handed cancellation of their instalment purchase agreements by the Cape Town Community Housing Company (CTCHC), which owns and manages the units. The letters were followed by others that read: “As a result of the cancellation of the agreement and your failure to vacate, CTCHC has suffered due to your unlawful occupation of the premises. CTCHC is entitled to recover such damages from you until the property is vacated and the keys returned.” Some of the residents said they fell on hard times and either fell short on their monthly rent or lost their jobs and were unable to afford the rent. Gansen Govender said he was not able to pay rent after losing his job and he and his wife were unemployed. “I admit I didn't pay rent for three years and now my wife has a job and we tried to make an arrangement and they told us no. We don’t know where we will go; we do not have family we can turn to and we will probably be out on the street,” he said. Govender said they paid R1000 each month since they fell on hard times and after losing his job they were not able to make the payment. Beverly Chongo has paid her house in full but started a committee to try to get lawyers to help the families. “We raise funds by making roti and curries and to see what needs to be paid, and we're trying to get lawyers to assist us. A lot of people were not sure what to do when they got the letters because they stand to lose their homes.” She said she saw the desperation of some residents and decided to help. “We hope we can get proper legal assistance. This is total injustice because they have not been communicating properly with the people this company is creating a bigger backlog on housing lists. If they are evicted there will be a bigger backlog.” Faizel Moos, head of client services for the CTCHC, said it must be understood that they are a credit financial services company and went through the whole legal process before the letters were handed over. “These people have infringed on their credit agreement. Their accounts are handed over and they receive a letter of unlawful occupation they do not come to us and then they turn on us.” Moos said they had a number of successful cases in which they helped residents who fell on hard times. “They must come to us and we can interview them personally. We are very sympathetic. We're here to help people, but they do not come to us if you cannot come up with the cash we can get an interim rental agreement to try and help out.” Moos said the credit act was now in play and going to the media would not make a difference. @yo_lisa92  yolisa.tswanya@inl.co.za  Cape Argus