Cape Town - The poor stand to benefit after 10% of a R1 billion contract awarded to develop prime property in Clifton will be allocated to affordable housing projects on “well-located” land in the inner city. A further condition of the contract awarded to a consortium called K2015298271 is  to improve public access to beach, ocean and recreational facilities as well as protect the natural vegetation and enhance local and international tourism potential, the city said. Brett Herron, mayoral committee member for urban development and transport, said the successful bidder is required to deliver on the upgrading of the surrounding public infrastructure. This includes: the Maiden’s Cove picnic area, which is to be upgraded into a coastal park similar in stature to that of the Green Point Urban Park; Victoria Road, which must be upgraded to improve the safety of pedestrians and cyclists; parts of The Glen trail and Kloof Road sidewalks, which will be upgraded to improve pedestrian movement and access; the Clifton and Glen Beach steps, which must be upgraded and rehabilitated; and the Clifton Surf Lifesaving Club buildings, which must be rehabilitated. He added that the land was about 16 hectares, of which 5ha had now been made available to the successful bidder for the development of two pockets of single residential developments. “Sections of the four erven located in this area will be sold and others leased for a period of up to 50 years. This means that sections of the land parcels will be developed and managed by the private sector as sustainable assets for future generations,” he said. The contractor is also required to construct a boardwalk between Camps Bay and the Maiden’s Cove coastal park in Clifton, construct a Bantry Point Caves boardwalk to give the public access to this part of the shoreline and redevelop the Glen Country Club clubhouse and recreational facilities. “The cost of the investment in the upgrading of existing public infrastructure and the construction of new public infrastructure will be funded by the city,” Herron said. Herron said the city-owned land between the Clifton bungalows and Camps Bay which includes the Glen Country Club, Maiden’s Cove, a sports oval and garages for bungalow residents, is in a poor state. “The proposed development will rejuvenate the surrounding area, improve public access to the beach, ocean and recreational facilities, protect the natural vegetation, enhance local and international tourism potential and unlock investment to drive job creation,” he said. A public participation process, as required by law, will be held soon.  jason.felix@inl.co.za  Cape Argus