The main attractions will include a host of live action led by newcomer Alphonso Loots in his 7-litre Ford-based Titan Monster Truck with its giant, chest-high wheels, which will be crushing as many stationary cars as he can find. Then there are the Le Riche brothers who thrilled the crowd at last year’s show. Recently returned from the US, their motorcycle stunt show has new variations. The action also includes the guys from AfrikaBurn who are forsaking their base in the Karoo to show off a selection of their wacky home-built vehicles. On a more serious note, there will be more than 1000 static wheeled exhibits. These include new, vintage and veteran cars and commercial vehicles of all kinds. Providing a booking is made, many of the latest production models will also be available for test runs on a section of the main track. There will also be displays from Picture Cars, of vehicles they supply for movies and television, as well as a selection of powerful American police cars. By contrast, the Crankhandle Club will not be aiming to set any new lap records when they stage a display of slow-speed action during their parade of magnificently restored classic, vintage and veteran cars, around the track. These will be supported by a Monster Energy Activation, mechanical and pedal karting for the public, kiddies’ bumper cars, a funfair and a number of gimmicky side-shows. Here the “balls” are going to finish as runner-up to “wheels”, with dart soccer requiring a ball to be kicked onto a target, while the Zorba Ball has a passenger enclosed in a giant ball and then rolled around. Paintball is a make-believe war game familiar to most youngsters. There will also be a spectacular model aeroplane stunt show and flypast, a big airbag jump, an inflatable parachute rocket and a snake show. For those who may want to relax, there are seven food courts, eight live bands (at various times during the day), beer gardens and wine tasting. Displays will feature electric scooters and electrically-assisted pedal cycles, as well as racing with electrically-powered model cars on a mini oval track. The show is being set up on Saturday, October 14, and will be open for business from 10am until 5pm the next day. Cape Argus