Last Friday education advocacy group Equal Education held a mass march that was supported by pupils, teachers and various communities. Together they dropped off a memorandum calling on the MEC and ministers to attend a public hearing organised by civil society organisations. “This position was taken that the Western Cape Education Department led by the MEC has failed to ensure safe schools. The two incidents in which pupils have been stabbed to death on school grounds during school time are a clear indication that Debbie Schäfer is failing our children and has blood on her hands,” said ANC Youth League Dullah Omar Region regional co-ordinator Roscoe Jacobs. On Wednesday the ANC Youth League lodged a complaint with the South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) against Schäfer and her department. According to the ANC, Schäfer’s department’s failure to ensure safe schools was “a gross violation of the rights of children and the right to security”. “The killing of young people at schools in Cape Town is becoming a norm, and happens during each school year. We have been informed that Commissioner Gaum of the SAHRC will be investigating our complaint,” Jacobs said. Equal Education said they had been engaging with the department on the issue of safety and sanitation for more than a year. The group has also visited numerous schools where they had picked up various problems affecting safety. “Schools with no access control (fences, security guards, etc) mean that anyone can enter and exit as they please. “There are teachers and principals working in dangerous conditions who are expected to confront gangsters with no support from the SAPS or department,” said Equal Education spokesperson Mila Kakaza. The department said it welcomed the organisation’s commitment to school safety. “We look forward to working with them to address the issue,” said Western Cape Education Department spokesperson Paddy Attwell. Schäfer admitted Cape Town schools has experienced an increase in gang violence. “This has had a direct impact on our schools. While we are doing as much 
as we can to try and protect our schools, 
we simply do not have the legislative 
mandate, security manpower or budget 
to guarantee pupil safety from gang violence,” Schäfer said. @MarvinCharles17  marvin.charles@inl.co.za  Cape Argus