Cape Town - City Law Enforcement officials are celebrating the work of their members this week after a number of arrests were made. Officers arrested three people on various charges, and seized drugs, cash and weapons, including a large knife. "On October 23, 2017 Law Enforcement Officers on patrol in the Green Point area came across a suspicious looking character and searched him. He was found to be in possession of narcotics and a large knife. He was arrested and charged for possession of a dangerous weapon and possession of drugs," law enforcement spokesperson Wayne Dyason said. "On October 24, 2017 eagle-eyed City Law Enforcement officers attached to the Liquor Unit spotted an abandoned firearm lying next to a shop in King Edward street Parow. They gathered the unloaded handgun and decided to search the area for any further items of interest. They found seven units of tik but, no suspects. The drugs and firearm was handed in at Parow SAPS. "On October 25, 2017 officers on patrol in the Oliver Tambo Square area of Samora Machel saw two males running after a vehicle. They informed the officers they were just robbed of their vehicle and belongings. The officers gave chase in their patrol vehicle and managed to pull off the three suspects who fled the scene and were not caught. The car was recovered but the thieves took two cell phones, two wallets and also in what could be considered a sign of hope for them, a bible. "In the Cape Town area alert officers working on the Grand Parade were alerted by members of the public of a drug transaction taking place. They spotted the buyer and as they approached him he swallowed the drugs. Undeterred the officers searched him and found more drugs on his person. He was arrested and charged at Cape Town Central SAPS," Dyason said. In another incident, officers arrested a man and later found some R30 000 in cash in his backpack. "Also on the parade officers were alerted to a 28-year-old male suspect who had just tried to use a stolen credit card at a sports equipment store running down Riebeeck Street. The Law Enforcement Officers assisted by a security guard chased and caught the suspect. They searched him and found a wad of cash in his back pack. He had withdrawn R30 000 from the victims account. SAPS was called and they arrested the suspect," he said. "Law Enforcement will continue in their efforts to make our City a safer place by dealing with swiftly with anyone caught breaking the law," Dyason said.  argusnews@inl.co.za  Cape Argus