The cop’s pregnant wife was with him inside their vehicle at their Delft home at the time. The constable, only identified as “Oom G” Mzilikazi, was off duty when he and his wife pulled into their driveway in N2 Gateway on Thursday night. Police say the assailants, two males, one short and the other tall, ran to the car and shot Mzilikazi four times in the stomach and fled the scene. RELATED: Off-duty police officer shot in front of pregnant wife Failed The suspects wanted to rob him of his car, but failed after the cop put up a fight. His pregnant wife, who was grazed by a bullet, drove the injured cop to the Bellville Melomed Hospital with him in a critical condition. Mzilikazi died of his injuries on Saturday. Wearing a pink maternity dress, the heavily pregnant woman was too distraught to speak on Friday. Mzilikazi was stationed at Delft Police Station. A police source says: “SAPS was informed that a police member was shot at home and taken by the wife to Melomed Hospital. On arrival at the scene, officers interviewed the neighbour who informed that the two suspects and the victim were fighting between the doorway and gate. “The suspects pulled him outside and the short suspect took out a firearm and hit him in the head. The tall suspect also took out a firearm and shot him and they put their firearms back in front of their pants and ran off. The motive was to take the vehicle of the member.” Police spokesperson, Lieutenant-Colonel André Traut, confirmed the shooting on Friday: “This office can confirm that a 35-year-old off-duty police constable was shot and wounded in Delft last night at about 9.15 after he was attacked by two male suspects. The member was admitted to hospital and the circumstances are being investigated.” Traut confirmed on Sunday that the constable died of his injuries. “It can be confirm that the police constable succumbed [on Saturday] due to his injuries. The charge has been changed to murder,” Traut says.  genevieve.serra@inl.co.za  Daily Voice