On Thursday, Mayco member for Transport  and Urban Development, councillor Brett Herron, announced that the council would be approaching the national government to seek approval and funding for their plans to secure control of commuter rail in the region. United National Transport Union (Untu) general secretary Steve Harris said the council's plans were misleading the public and upsetting the employees of the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa. About half of Prasa's employees are members of the union. “When the media first asked Untu for comment about the City of Cape Town’s plan, the union thought it was a joke. But now the City of Cape Town continues with its pre-election propaganda, misleading its taxpayers and our members. The City of Cape Town is dreaming of a pie in the sky that has no prospect of success.” The idea of municipalities taking control of its local passenger rail service is not a new one. It was first suggested in the late 1990s in Gauteng, but it was too costly, said Harris. “Since the establishment of Prasa as a separate state-owned enterprise (SOE) independent from Transnet, it has struggled to maintain a functional passenger rail network due to lack of funding. This problem had only got worse as time went by, resulting in the operational crisis Prasa finds itself in today.” He said he believed the council should rather take up the fight with the government to do what it was supposed to do, instead of making “ridiculous” media statements "before it had done its homework”. “As to the affordability of its idea, Capetonian taxpayers will never have the money to afford the continued upgrading of the infrastructure of the passenger railway network,” Harris said. Herron said the council was acting in the best interest of public transport commuters. He pointed out that 95% of them come from low-income families reliant on the rail system. “That system is at risk of collapsing, and a responsible, caring government should be expected to act as we are,” he said. Herron said Prasa employees were protected by labour laws and had nothing to worry about. “I urge unions to act responsibly, refrain from using unnecessary inflammatory language and to reserve their comment for when the full Assignment Plan and Rail Masterplan is presented,” he said. Dalton Ndongeni, spokesperson for Public Transport Voice, an organisation that advocates for the rights of commuters, said they were awaiting to hear what the council’s plans were. He said they were in support of any initiative that would serve as a solution to the ongoing Metrorail crisis.  zodidi.dano@inl.co.za  Cape Argus